ADP 2-0

INTELLIGENCE

SS WE'y
fy L Dep S
ND

Te

Xk3

JULY 2019
DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION:

Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
This publication supersedes ADP 2-0, dated 4 September 2018.

HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY


Introduction

KEY DOCTRINAL CONCEPTS

Operations and intelligence are closely linked. The intelligence process is continuous and directly drives and
supports the operations process. This principle will remain true well into the future. Intelligence will continue
to be a critical part of the conduct—planning, preparing, executing, and assessing—of operations. Future
operations will be difficult. They will occur in complex operational environments against capable peer
threats, who most likely will start from positions of relative advantage. U.S. forces will require effective
intelligence to prevail during these operations.

Intelligence supports joint and Army operations across unified action, the Army’s strategic roles, unified land
operations, and decisive action at each echelon—from the geographic combatant command down to the
battalion level. Specifically, intelligence supports commanders and staffs by facilitating situational
understanding across all domains and the information environment. Commanders and staffs use situational
understanding to identify and exploit multi-domain windows of opportunity and to achieve and exploit
positions of relative advantage.

Intelligence is inherently joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational. Every aspect of
intelligence is synchronized, networked, and collaborative across all unified action partners. This
synchronization occurs through national to tactical intelligence support. The Army both benefits from and
contributes to national to tactical intelligence and focuses the Army intelligence effort through the
intelligence warfighting function, which is larger than military intelligence. Critical participants within the
function include commanders and staffs, decision makers, collection managers, and intelligence leaders.

Despite a thorough understanding of intelligence fundamentals and a proficient staff, an effective intelligence
effort is not assured. Large-scale ground combat operations are characterized by complexity, chaos, fear,
violence, fatigue, and uncertainty. The fluid and chaotic nature of large-scale ground combat operations
causes the greatest degree of fog, friction, and stress on the intelligence warfighting function. Threat forces
will attempt to counter friendly collection capabilities by using integrated air defense systems, long-range
fires, counterreconnaissance, cyberspace and electronic warfare operations, camouflage and concealment,
and deception.

Ensuring an effective intelligence effort is a challenge described as fighting for intelligence. The following
aspects of fighting for intelligence are critical:

e Effective intelligence requires developing an effective intelligence architecture well before large-
scale combat operations.

The commander must own the intelligence effort.
e@ The commander and staff—
= Must forge an effective relationship and excel in staff integration.

= Must understand intelligence limitations, especially collection gaps, at their echelon and
overcome or mitigate those limitations through effective information collection.

= At times, may have to conduct combat operations or find creative solutions to enable
information collection.

e The unit must adjust the information collection plan, adapt to threat counter-collection measures,
and maintain a layered and aggressive information collection effort.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 vii


Introduction

viii

The introductory figure illustrates the nesting of intelligence with operations.

Challenges in an Operational Environment

Peer Threats
Information warfare * Preclusion
Isolation * Sanctuary
Systems warfare

Other Considerations

Intelligence is critical
in a complex environment
against a peer threat.

Contested domains and LOCs « Antiaccess and area denial

Urbanization

Human aspects « Messaging

* Degraded mission command systems

U.S. Army Strategic Roles in Support of the Joint Force

t  —_ Win

Shape the Prevent | Prevail During Large-Scale

Operational A
Environment Conflict Ground Combat

SU UU Ung ol

Consolidate Gains

Seize . PA Enable Civil
be

Joint —J#i—-iAAA_________I

Addressed through Unified Land Operations
(the Army Operational Concept)
Unified land operations is the simultaneous employment of
offense, defense, and stability or defense support of civil
authorities across multiple domains to shape operational
environments, prevent conflict, prevail in large-scale ground
combat, and consolidate gains as part of unified action.

Executed through Decisive Action
Defensive Stability

Guided by Mission Command
(Approach)

Offensive DSCA

Conducted by Echelons

Synchronizing the Elements of Combat Power

* Command and Control = + Fires ¢ Leadership
* Movement and Maneuver » Sustainment ° Information
* Intelligence * Protection

Across all Domains

Intelligence in Unified Land Operations
Intelligence is inherently joint, interagency, intergovernmental,
and multinational. To win the Nation’s wars, the Army
synchronizes with unified action partners to provide effective
intelligence across multiple domains and reduce operational
uncertainty.

Supports...

Commanders’ and Decision Makers’
Situational Understanding

By leveraging...

National to Tactical Intelligence
+ Army forces depend on the intelligence community and
the intelligence architecture.
+ Intelligence support is greater than organic capabilities
at a particular echelon.
* Intelligence is disseminated over the network and some
capabilities are downward reinforcing (task-organized).

Which the Army executes through the...

Intelligence Warfighting Function
The related tasks and systems that facilitate understanding the
enemy, terrain, weather, civil considerations, and other
Significant aspects of the operational environment (ADP 3-0).
asks:

+ Provide intelligence support to force generation.

+ Provide support to situational understanding.

+ Conduct information collection.

+ Provide intelligence support to targeting and

information operations.

Across all domains to open...

Windows of Opportunity
Intelligence is critical in identifying operational windows of
opportunity across the domains, but sometimes it is necessary
to take action to ensure successful intelligence collection.

Introductory figure. ADP 2-0 logic chart

ADP 2-0

31 July 2019


Introduction

Fighting for Intelligence
To Achieve and Exploit Positions of Relative Advantage « Intelligence is complex and a peer threat with
advanced capabilities can counter intelligence efforts.
+ Every echelon has challenges and has to work to

Intelligence operations mitigate limitations.

i « The commander owns the intelligence effort.
Reconatssa nce tasks * Staff integration is difficult but crucial.

Secunity operations

To direct the intelligence effort, the commander and staff
must understand the fundamental Army intelligence

doctrinal constructs:
Enable

Intelligence
Core Competencies

* Intelligence synchronization

Basic activities and tasks used
to describe the intelligence
warfighting function and to
leverage national to tactical
intelligence

Understanding * Intelligence operations
Targeting * Intelligence PED _
Messaging * Intelligence analysis
Movement

Fires

Intelligence Process

Dislocate, isolate, disintegrate, and destroy enemy forces Disseminate
Achieve objectives
Accomplish missions

Abroad process for
supporting operations

. ak peo fees
- Countenntelligence
- Geospatial intelligence

- Human intelligence —

. itcigons PED capabilities

Plan
and
Direct

Collect
and

n
Process

The basic “building blocks”
that together constitute the
intelligence effort

DSCA defense support of civil authorities LOC line of communications PED processing, exploitation, and dissemination

Introductory figure. ADP 2-0 logic chart (continued)

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0


Introduction

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This publication was deliberately changed to nest ADP 2-0 with FM 3-0 and to help focus the Army on the new
challenges associated with joint large-scale combat operations and Army large-scale ground combat operations.
Despite the change in focus, the intelligence fundamental concepts remain but with some modifications. This
version of ADP 2-0 also incorporates terminology changes driven by updates to ADPs 3-0, 5-0, and 6-0.

This executive summary highlights the most important aspects of each chapter and the most significant
changes from the last version. Additionally, each bullet includes the page number (in parenthesis) where that
topic is discussed in this publication.

ADP 2-0 contains five chapters:

Chapter 1 discusses how intelligence nests with the most fundamental operational doctrinal concepts. In
order to understand Army intelligence, it is important to understand intelligence within the larger context of
FM 3-0. From national and DOD levels down to the Army battalion level, intelligence is an activity that is
never at rest. Army forces are globally engaged, always executing operations and preparing for future
operations as part of a joint team. This chapter—

e Provides an overview of—
=" Large-scale combat operations. (1-1)
=" Unified action and joint operations. (1-5)
=" The Army’s strategic roles. (1-6)
=" Unified land operations. (1-7)

=" Decisive action with subordinate discussions on the offense, defense, stability, and defense
support of civil authorities. (1-7)

Updates discussion of the operational environment. (1-2)
Updates the discussion of the threat. (1-4)
e Discusses intelligence support within multi-domain operations. (1-10)

Chapter 2 discusses the most fundamental intelligence doctrinal concepts. Intelligence support is critical to
operations and occurs at each echelon, from theater army down to the battalion level. In order to drive
intelligence, the commander and staff must understand the intelligence warfighting function, the intelligence
core competencies, national to tactical intelligence, setting the theater, and establishing the intelligence
architecture. This chapter—

e Discusses the purpose of intelligence. (2-1)

e Updates the discussion of the intelligence warfighting function. (2-2)

e Updates the description of the intelligence core competencies and introduces intelligence
processing, exploitation, and dissemination (PED) as a fourth intelligence core competency. (2-5)

e Introduces PED as a term and updates the PED discussion to include intelligence PED. (2-6)
Introduces national to tactical intelligence, which replaces the discussion of intelligence
enterprise. (2-7)

e Introduces and discusses regionally aligned forces and setting the theater for intelligence in Army
forces. (2-8)

e Introduces and discusses establishing the intelligence architecture as a capability. (2-9)

Chapter 3 discusses the most important intelligence doctrinal construct—the intelligence process. The
intelligence process is a model that describes how the intelligence warfighting function facilitates situational
understanding and supports decision making. This process provides a common framework for Army
professionals to guide their thoughts, discussions, plans, and assessments. This chapter—

e Discusses how the operations process and intelligence process nest. (3-1)
e Discusses the plan and direct step. (3-3)

e Modifies the collect step to the collect and process step, and includes a new figure depicting the
revision of the intelligence process. (3-5)

Discusses the produce step. (3-6)
e Discusses the disseminate step. (3-6)

x ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Introduction

e Discusses the analyze continuing activity. (3-8)
e Discusses the assess continuing activity. (3-8)

Chapter 4 discusses the key capabilities by which the intelligence warfighting function facilitates situational
understanding and supports decision making. The intelligence warfighting function executes the intelligence
process by employing intelligence capabilities. These key capabilities (building blocks) are all-source
intelligence and single-source intelligence. Single-source intelligence comprises the intelligence disciplines,
complementary intelligence capabilities, and PED capabilities. This chapter—

e Updates the discussion of all-source intelligence and introduces identity activities as an all-source
effort. (4-1)
Updates the discussion of the intelligence disciplines. (4-3)
Updates the discussion of the complementary intelligence capabilities. (4-10)
Replaces the discussion of PED with new material found in chapter 2. (2-6)

Discusses intelligence PED capabilities that support information collection. (4-13)

Chapter 5 culminates this publication with an important discussion of fighting for intelligence. Intelligence
is never perfect, information collection is never easy, and a single collection capability is never persistent
and accurate enough to provide all of the answers. The fluid and chaotic nature of large-scale ground combat
operations will cause the greatest degree of fog, friction, and stress on the intelligence warfighting function.
Units must be prepared to fight for intelligence against enemy formations, a range of sophisticated threat
capabilities, and many unknown conditions within the operational environment. This chapter—
e Discusses fighting for intelligence during large-scale ground combat operations, with emphasis on
the intelligence challenge. (5-1)
e Updates the description of the commander’s role in intelligence, including intelligence and the
integrating processes. (5-2)
e Discusses planning considerations and information requirements to support the defense and
offense, reconnaissance, security operations, and deep operations. (5-5)
e Discusses unique aspects of developing a flexible information collection plan and establishing an
effective intelligence architecture. (5-8)
e Updates the discussion on the continuous nature of information collection. (5-9)

NEW, RESCINDED, AND MODIFIED TERMS

ADP 2-0 becomes the proponent of one Army term, introduces two new Army terms, and modifies three
Army terms. (See introductory table 1.)

Introductory table 1. New and modified Army terms

human intelligence ADP 2-0 becomes the proponent.
intelligence enterprise Replaced by national to tactical intelligence.

intelligence processing, exploitation, and Modified description.
dissemination

infeligence reach
intelligence synchronization

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 xi


Introduction

xii

This publication uses the term commander’s critical information requirements and other requirements when
referring to information collection activities. When referring to the intelligence warfighting function or
intelligence analysis, the more specific term, priority intelligence requirements and other requirements
applies.

Acronyms are introduced at their first use in the front matter of this publication (preface and introduction),
and again in the body of the publication (chapters | through 5).

ADP 2-0 introduces G-X and S-X (such as G-2 and S-2) acronyms at their first use without defining them as
it hinders readability. Definitions for these acronyms can be found in the glossary of this publication.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Chapter 1
Operations and Intelligence

Throughout modern history, intelligence has
been and remains an inherent part of military Intelligence
operations. From national and Department | Intelligence is (1) the product resulting from

of Defense (DOD) levels down to the Army the collection, processing, integration,
evaluation, analysis, and interpretation of

available information concerning foreign

battalion level, intelligence is an activity that
never stops. Army forces are globally | nations, hostile or potentially hostile forces
engaged, always executing operations and | or elements, or areas of actual or potential
preparing for future operations as part of a operations; (2) the activities that result in
joint team. A key part of global engagement une) (gaoteMTes life! (C)) Ws) Chyefelatas Loins

. . . . engaged in such activities (JP 2-0).

is the continuous use of intelligence, the

collection and analysis of information, and the production of intelligence. This constant
activity, referred to as intelligence, is never at rest. To understand Army intelligence, it
is important to understand intelligence within the larger context of joint large-scale
combat operations, including Army large-scale ground combat operations; the
operational environment; unified action; the Army strategic roles; and unified land
operations.

LARGE-SCALE COMBAT OPERATIONS

1-1, Threats to United States (U.S.) interests worldwide are countered by the U.S. forces’ ability to respond
to a variety of challenges along a conflict continuum that spans from peace to war as shown in figure 1-1.
U.S. forces conduct a range of military operations to respond to these challenges. The conflict continuum
does not proceed smoothly from stable peace to general war and back.

Notional Operations Across the Conflict Continuum

Large-Scale Combat Operations

Crisis Response and Limited Range of
Contingency Operations Military
Operations

Military Engagement, Security
Cooperation, and Deterrence

Figure 1-1. The conflict continuum and the range of military operations

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 1-1


Chapter 1

1-2. The range of military operations is a fundamental construct that helps relate military activities and
operations in scope and purpose within a backdrop of the conflict continuum. All operations along this range
share a common fundamental purpose—to achieve or contribute to national objectives. Military engagement,
security cooperation, and deterrence activities build networks and relationships with partners, shape regions,
keep day-to-day tensions between nations or groups below the threshold of armed conflict, and maintain U.S.
global influence. Typically, crisis response and limited contingency operations are focused in scope and scale
and conducted to achieve a specific strategic- or operational-level objective in an operational area. Large-
scale combat operations are extensive joint combat operations in terms of scope and size of forces committed,
conducted as a campaign aimed at achieving operational and strategic objectives (ADP 3-0). Large-scale
combat operations are at the far right of the conflict continuum and associated with war. These operations
occur in the form of major operations and campaigns aimed at defeating an enemy’s armed forces and military
capabilities to support national objectives. Large-scale combat operations are intense, lethal, and brutal. Their
conditions include complexity, chaos, fear, violence, fatigue, and uncertainty.

1-3. While the Army must be manned, equipped, and trained to operate across the range of military
operations, large-scale combat operations present the greatest challenge for Army forces. Army forces
conduct large-scale ground combat operations with a focus on the defeat and destruction of enemy ground
forces as part of the joint team. Large-scale ground combat operations are sustained combat operations
involving multiple corps and divisions (ADP 3-0). Large-scale ground combat operations are not
synonymous with total war and can occur below the nuclear threshold. However, large-scale ground combat
operations entail significant operational risk, synchronization, capabilities convergence, and a high
operational tempo. Army forces close with and destroy enemy forces in any terrain, exploit success, and
break the opponent’s will to resist. The ability to prevail in ground combat is a decisive factor in breaking an
enemy’s capability and will to continue a conflict. Conflict resolution requires the Army to conduct sustained
operations with unified action partners as long as necessary to achieve national objectives.

1-4, Future battlefields will be complex. Enemies will employ a combination of conventional tactics,
terrorism, criminal activity, and information warfare to complicate operations. Army forces will have to
conduct urban and subterranean operations. Noncombatants will be crowded in and around large and densely
populated cities. To an ever-increasing degree, ground operations are inseparable from activities in the
information environment. These characteristics present a significant challenge for intelligence as a
warfighting function. (See FM 3-0 for more information about large-scale ground combat operations.)

THE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT

1-5, An operational environment is a composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect
the employment of capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander (JP 3-0). Commanders at all
levels have their own operational environment for their particular operation. An operational environment for
a specific operation comprises more than the interacting variables that exist within a specific physical area.
It also involves interconnected influences (for example, politics and economics)—globally or regionally—
that impact the conditions and operations within that physical area. Thus, each commander’s operational
environment is part of a higher commander’s operational environment.

1-6. An operational environment is complex and dynamic and consists of many relationships and
interactions among interrelated variables. Today’s information technology makes the information
environment, which includes cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum (EMS), indispensable to military
operations. The information environment is a key part of any operational environment and will remain
congested and contested simultaneously during operations. All groups in the information environment—
enemy, friendly, or neutral—remain vulnerable to attack by physical, psychological, cyber, or electronic
means. Each complex aspect of the operational environment makes intelligence support that much more
complex. (See FM 3-12 for more information on cyberspace operations and the EMS.)

OPERATIONAL AND MISSION VARIABLES

1-7, Analysis of the broad aspects of an operational environment in terms of the operational variables
provides relevant information that senior commanders use to understand, visualize, and describe the
operational environment. The operational variables are political, military, economic, social, information,
infrastructure, physical environment, and time (PMESH-PT). Upon receipt of a warning order or mission,

1-2 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Operations and Intelligence

Army leaders filter relevant information and narrow their focus to six mission variables—mission, enemy,
terrain and weather, troops and support available, time available, and civil considerations (METT-TC).
Extensive analysis of the operational and mission variables involves significant intelligence support as
intelligence often provides the critical context and cultural understanding necessary to support staff planning
and facilitate situational understanding.

Terrain

1-8, Terrain aspects and weather conditions are inseparable, directly influence each other, and impact
military operations based on the mission variables (METT-TC). Terrain analysis, also referred to as
geospatial analysis, involves the study and interpretation of an area’s natural and man-made features, their
effects on military operations, and the effects of weather and climate on these features. Terrain analysis is a
continuous process. The staff geospatial engineer normally analyzes the military aspects of terrain, which
include the collection, analysis, evaluation, and interpretation of geospatial information on the terrain’s
natural and man-made features. Analysts combine other relevant factors with the terrain and weather to
predict their effects on military operations. (For more information, see ATP 2-01.3.)

Weather

1-9, Weather analysis is more than just generating weather forecasts. Weather analysis focuses on detailed
assessments of weather effects on friendly and threat operations and various systems. Analysts evaluate the
effects of each military aspect of weather and focus on the aspects that have the most bearing on operations
and decision making. The evaluation of each aspect should begin with operational climatology and current
weather forecasts. Analysts fine-tune the evaluation to determine effects based on specific weather sensitivity
thresholds for friendly and threat forces and systems. (For more information, see ATP 2-01.3.)

Civil Considerations

1-10, As part of generating intelligence knowledge before receipt of mission, the staff can database and
describe civil considerations using the joint systems perspective (see JP 3-0), the operational variables
(PMESII-PT), or the ASCOPE (areas, structures, capabilities, organizations, people, and events)
characteristics. However, after the receipt of the mission, Army forces use ASCOPE characteristics as part
of the mission variables (METT-TC) during intelligence preparation of the battlefield (IPB). The staff and
intelligence analysts leverage information from many different sources, including publicly available
information, to provide predictive, specific intelligence on ASCOPE characteristics that are significant to the
mission. Lower echelon intelligence staffs may have to depend on higher echelon organizations, such as the
Defense Intelligence Agency, to provide detailed information and analysis pertaining to civil considerations
and sociocultural factors during some types of operations. (For more on ASCOPE and IPB, see ATP 2-01.3.)

MULTI-DOMAIN EXTENDED BATTLEFIELD

1-11. The interrelationship of the air, land, maritime, space, and cyberspace domains, the information
environment, and the EMS requires cross-domain situational understanding of the operational environment.
Commanders and staffs must understand the friendly and enemy capabilities and vulnerabilities that reside
in each domain. From this understanding, commanders can better identify windows of opportunity during
operations to converge capabilities for the best effects. Since many capabilities are not organic to Army
forces, commanders and staffs plan, coordinate for, and integrate joint and other unified action partner
capabilities in a multi-domain approach to operations. Intelligence plays an important role in facilitating
situational understanding across all domains. This type of intelligence effort requires time, significant
intelligence capabilities, and an analytical focus.

1-12, Since the Army conducts operations across all domains and the information environment, a multi-
domain approach to operations is neither new to the Army nor to national to tactical intelligence. Rapid and
continued advances in technologies and the military’s use of new technologies within the space domain, the
EMS, and the information environment (particularly cyberspace) will drive new requirements for special
considerations for intelligence, planning, and converging effects from across all domains.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 1-3


Chapter 1

TRENDS

1-13. Several trends will continue to affect future operational environments. The competition for resources,
water access, declining birthrates in traditionally allied nations, and disenfranchised groups in many nations
contribute to the likelihood of future conflict. Populations will continue to migrate across borders and to urban
areas in search of the employment and services urban areas offer. The adversarial use of media platforms to
disperse misinformation and propaganda and malign narratives enables adversaries to shape operational
environments to their advantage and ferment dissention, unrest, violence, or at the very least, uncertainty.

THREATS AND HAZARDS

1-14, Although threats are a fundamental part of an operational environment for any operation, they are
discussed separately here for emphasis; hazard is an important related term that also affects operations:

e A threat is any combination of actors, entities, or forces that have the capability and intent to harm
United States forces, United States national interests, or the homeland (ADP 3-0). Threats may
include individuals, groups of individuals (organized or not organized), paramilitary or military
forces, nation-states, or national alliances. In general, a threat can be categorized as an enemy or
an adversary.

e An enemy isa party identified as hostile against which the use of force is authorized (ADP 3-0).
An adversary is a party acknowledged as potentially hostile to a friendly party and against which
the use of force may be envisaged (JP 3-0).

e A hazard is a condition with the potential to cause injury, illness, or death of personnel; damage
to or loss of equipment or property; or mission degradation (JP 3-33).

1-15, While ADP 3-0 addresses various threats across the range of military operations, FM 3-0 focuses on
peer threats in large-scale ground combat operations. A peer threat is an adversary or enemy with capabilities
and capacity to oppose U.S. forces across multiple domains worldwide or in a specific region where they
enjoy a position of relative advantage. Peer threats possess roughly equal combat power in geographical
proximity to a conflict area with U.S. forces. A peer threat may also have a cultural affinity to specific regions,
providing them relative advantages in terms of time, space, and sanctuary. Peer threats generate tactical,
operational, and strategic challenges that are an order of magnitude more challenging militarily than those
the Army has faced since the end of the Cold War.

1-16, Peer threats employ their resources across multiple domains to attack U.S. vulnerabilities. They use
their capabilities to create lethal and nonlethal effects throughout an operational environment. During combat
operations, threats seek to inflict significant damage across multiple domains in a short period of time. They
seek to delay friendly forces long enough to achieve their goals and end hostilities before friendly forces
reach culmination. Peer threats will use various methods to employ their national elements of power to render
U.S. military power irrelevant. Five broad peer threat methods, often used in combination, are—

e Information warfare: The threat’s orchestrated use of information activities (such as cyberspace
operations, electronic warfare (EW), and psychological operations) to gain advantage in the
information environment.

e  Preclusion: The threat’s use of a wide variety of capabilities to preclude a friendly force’s ability
to shape the operational environment and mass and sustain combat power. Antiaccess and area
denial are two such activities.

e Isolation: The threat’s containment of a friendly force so the friendly force cannot accomplish its
mission. Peer threats will attempt to isolate U.S. forces in several ways. For example, the threat
might prevent a friendly force from effectively communicating while also decisively fixing a
friendly unit with long-range fires and close combat capabilities.

e Sanctuary: The threat’s ability to put its forces beyond the reach of friendly forces. It is a form
of protection derived by some combination of political, legal, and physical boundaries that restrict
freedom of action by a friendly force commander.

e Systems warfare: The threat’s analysis of the operational environment (including its forces and
friendly forces) to identify specific friendly critical capabilities for disruption or destruction in
order to cause failure of a larger friendly system.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Operations and Intelligence

1-17. Some peer threats have nuclear and chemical weapons capabilities and the ability to employ such
weapons in certain situations. However, capability does not equal intent to use, and it is generally presumed
that most would use restraint. Preparation and planning that consider nuclear and chemical weapons
capabilities are of paramount importance in any confrontation with an adversary armed with them.
Understanding threat nuclear and chemical weapons doctrine is important, particularly during large-scale
ground combat operations.

1-18, The intelligence warfighting function analyzes nation-states, organizations, people, or groups to
determine their ability to damage or destroy life, vital resources, and institutions, or to prevent mission
accomplishment. Threats are sometimes categorized as traditional, irregular, disruptive, and catastrophic.
While helpful in generally describing the nature of the threat, these categories do not precisely describe the
threat’s goals, organizations, and methods of operating.

1-19, Intelligence provides a deep understanding of the threat and how the threat can affect mission
accomplishment, which is essential to conducting operations. Commanders and staffs must understand how
current and potential threats organize, equip, train, employ, and control their forces. Therefore, the
intelligence warfighting function must continually identify, monitor, and assess threats as they adapt and
change over time. (For more information on threats and hazards see ADP 3-0 and FM 3-0.)

UNIFIED ACTION AND JOINT OPERATIONS

1-20, Unified action is the synchronization, coordination, and/or integration of the activities of governmental
and nongovernmental entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort (JP 1). Unified action
partners are those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the
private sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of
operations (ADP 3-0). Army contributions to unified action are called unified land operations (see paragraph
1-28). (For more information, see ADP 3-0.)

1-21. Intelligence is inherently joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational; it flows up and
down through the echelons to provide the most complete, timely, accurate, and detailed intelligence possible.
The Army provides adaptable intelligence capabilities that are dedicated to both joint and Army forces
operating as a part of the joint team. This intelligence effort is synchronized, networked, and includes
collaboration with unified action partners to achieve unity of effort and to meet the commander’s intent.
Intelligence unity of effort is critical to accomplish the mission. Multinational and interagency partners
provide unique capabilities that reinforce and complement Army intelligence capabilities, as well as
invaluable cultural awareness and different perspectives on the operational environment. Using the
appropriate procedures, foreign disclosure guidance, and established policy, Army intelligence leaders
provide information and intelligence support to multinational forces against an array of threats across
multiple domains.

1-22. Joint operations are military actions conducted by joint forces and those Service forces employed in
specific command relationships with each other, which of themselves, do not establish joint forces (JP 3-0).
Traditionally, campaigns are the most extensive joint operations. In terms of joint large-scale combat
operations, a campaign is a series of related major operations achieving strategic and operational objectives
within a given time and space. A major operation is a series of tactical actions, such as battles, engagements,
and strikes and it is the primary building block of a campaign. Army forces conduct supporting operations as
part of a joint campaign.

1-23, Most joint operations share certain activities or actions in common. There are six general groups of
military activities that typically occur in preparation for and during a joint large-scale combat operation.
These six groups are shape, deter, seize initiative, dominate, stabilize, and enable civil authorities. These six
general groups of activities provide a basis for thinking about a joint operation in notional phases. These
phases often overlap, and they are not necessarily sequential.

1-24, As a part of joint operations, the Army is the dominant fighting force in the land domain. Across the
globe, mission-tailored Army units build partnerships, deter adversaries, and overcome challenges to defeat
enemies using simultaneous actions integrated in time, space, and purpose. Army forces both depend on and
enable joint forces across all domains and the information environment. This mutual interdependence creates
powerful synergies and reflects that all operations have multi-domain components. The Army depends on the

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 1-5


Chapter 1

other Services for strategic and operational mobility, joint fires, and other key enabling capabilities like
information collection in the deep area. The Army supports other Services, combatant commands, and unified
action partners with ground-based indirect fires and ballistic missile defense, defensive cyberspace operations,
electronic protection, communications, intelligence, rotary-wing aircraft, logistics, and engineering.

1-25, Joint and Army intelligence staffs, units, and organizations within the theater intelligence architecture
operate as mutually supporting entities that ensure information and intelligence are shared across echelons to
support commanders at all levels. Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance is an important construct in
both joint and Army intelligence. Consistent with joint doctrine, intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance is an integrated operations and intelligence activity that synchronizes and integrates the
planning and operation of sensors, assets, and processing, exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct
support of current and future operations (JP 2-01). The Army continually executes intelligence, surveillance,
and reconnaissance worldwide through the operations and intelligence processes (with an emphasis on
intelligence analysis and leveraging intelligence at each echelon) and information collection.

THE ARMY’S STRATEGIC ROLES

1-26. The Army’s primary mission is to organize, train, and equip its forces to conduct prompt and sustained
land combat to defeat enemy ground forces and seize, occupy, and defend land areas. The Army accomplishes
its missions by supporting the joint force through the Army’s four strategic roles: shape the operational
environment, prevent conflict, prevail during large-scale ground combat, and consolidate gains. The strategic
roles clarify the enduring reasons for which the Army is organized, trained, and equipped. Figure 1-2 shows
the Army’s strategic roles in a general relationship to the joint phasing model.

Seize Enable
the Dominate Stabilize Civil
Initiative Authority

goin)

+ Develop regional threat databases and | * Refine databases and products to * Conduct detailed assessments focused
signatures support the mission on the following:
* Develop and then enhance intelligence | * Conduct extensive mission analysis = Effectiveness of friendly operations
products to support deter activities and in-depth IPB to support deployment |_ = Positive and negative trends in stability
+ Develop and refine intelligence portions | and initial operations activities
of contingency plans and estimates, * Train intelligence and maneuver assets | = Threat actions to counter friendly
including threat characteristics, TTP, on threat signatures, threat TTP, and activities
capabilities, and new systems potential threat COAs * Identify likely locations of stay-behind
+ Provide units access to intelligence + Develop the intelligence architecture and special purpose forces
repositories to support deployment and initial + Identify those who support and object to
+ Provide warning intelligence operations stability activities
+* Support operational preparation of the + Provide intelligence products that
environment assist the command in—
= Stabilizing the local government
= Providing a secure and safe environment
= Supporting transition and redeployment

COA course of action IPB intelligence preparation of the battlefield TTP tactics, techniques, and procedures

Figure 1-2. The Army’s strategic roles and their relationship to the joint phases

1-27. There are requirements for intelligence during each strategic role. Some intelligence activities are specific
to certain strategic roles, while others span multiple roles. (See figure 1-2 for some of the most important
intelligence tasks for each strategic role.) Commanders and leaders ensure adequate planning for; collection;
storage; processing, exploitation, and dissemination (PED); and analysis of information and intelligence during
each strategic role. Ideally, regionally aligned forces build on and enhance existing threat data, information, and
intelligence during the shaping activities. However, during the shape role, there may be instances in which

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Operations and Intelligence

regionally aligned forces must develop and populate an authoritative database of threat signatures and associated
contextual information, in conjunction with joint forces and the Defense Intelligence Agency. This allows units
to access, maintain, populate, and continually update the database throughout all subsequent activities.
Commands prepare to establish localized intelligence databases during all activities. It is critical for commands
to update the intelligence database continually with actual and potential adversaries to maximize the value of
intelligence products and reports.

UNIFIED LAND OPERATIONS

1-28, An operation is a sequence of tactical actions with a common purpose of unifying theme (JP 1). Army
forces, as part of the joint and multinational force, contribute to the joint mission through the conduct of
unified land operations. Unified land operations is the Army’s operational concept and contribution to unified
action; it is how the Army applies combat power. Unified land operations is the simultaneous execution of
offense, defense, stability, and defense support of civil authorities across multiple domains to shape
operational environments, prevent conflict, prevail in large-scale ground combat, and consolidate gains as
part of unified action (ADP 3-0). The goal of unified land operations is to establish conditions that achieve
the joint force commander’s end state by applying landpower as part of a unified action to defeat the enemy.
Military forces seek to prevent or deter threats through unified action, and, when necessary, execute
operations to defeat aggression.

1-29, Land operations, particularly large-scale ground combat operations, focus on destroying or dislocating
enemy forces or securing key land objectives that reduce the enemy’s ability to conduct operations. Five
characteristics distinguish land operations: scope, duration, terrain, permanence, and civilian presence. The
characteristics of land operations contribute to the complexity and uncertainty of the environment in which
Army forces conduct operations. Land operations against a peer threat (highly adaptive and technologically
advanced) are especially challenging. At the beginning of a conflict, peer threats often occupy a position that
greatly complicates Army forces’ ability to conduct operations.

1-30. Peer threats are developing the capability to mass effects across multiple domains at a speed that will
impact ongoing operations. They will most likely attempt to deny U.S. and multinational forces access to their
territory. Once Army forces achieve access, the threat will attempt to deny them freedom of maneuver. Future
adversaries are likely to use offensive cyberspace operations and counter-space measures to deny and degrade
USS. forces’ maneuver, communications, intelligence collection, and targeting capabilities. Land-based threats
will impede joint force freedom of movement and action across all domains and the information environment.

DECISIVE ACTION

1-31. Within unified land operations, Army forces conduct decisive action. Decisive action is the continuous,
simultaneous combinations of offensive, defensive, and stability operations or defense support of civil
authorities tasks (ADP 3-0). In unified land operations, commanders seek to seize, retain, and exploit the
initiative while synchronizing their actions to achieve the best effects possible. Operations conducted outside
the United States and its territories simultaneously combine three elements—offense, defense, and stability.
Within the United States and its territories, decisive action combines the elements of defense support of civil
authorities (DSCA) and, as required, offense and defense to support homeland defense. (See table 1-1 on
page 1-8.)

1-32, Commanders and staffs at all levels synchronize intelligence with the other warfighting functions to
maximize their ability to visualize the operational environment and disrupt the threat simultaneously
throughout the area of operations (AO) or perform the necessary stability tasks to consolidate gains.
Collecting the intelligence required is often more complex and requires leveraging national to tactical
intelligence capabilities. Commanders must be more involved in and knowledgeable of the intelligence
warfighting function due to the complexity of operations. The following list provides some basic aspects of
intelligence (discussed in more detail in subsequent chapters):
e The Army recognizes the function of intelligence as an element of combat power through the
designation of the intelligence warfighting function.
e Intelligence is requirement-driven, and the commander drives intelligence primarily through clear,
feasible, and focused requirements.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 1-7


Chapter 1

e The collection of information to support the production of intelligence is called information
collection.

e There are many different intelligence analytical tasks such as generate intelligence knowledge,
IPB, situation development, and intelligence support to targeting and information operations.

e The general intelligence capabilities employed by the commander and staff are: intelligence
analysis elements, PED elements, and military intelligence (MI) units. These general capabilities
consist of specific collectors or platforms with specific technical capabilities or sensors.

1-33. Itis critical for the intelligence staff to support the commander’s ability to visualize threats and relevant
aspects of the operational environment during the conduct of decisive operations. However, information
requirements, information collection tactics and techniques, the theater intelligence architecture, the nature
of intelligence analysis, the employment of MI units, and specific tactics and techniques differ significantly
depending on the specific decisive action task.

Table 1-1. Elements of decisive action

Po Ctt—“‘(‘CONCC(COfense” = C—“‘COUCLOUOCOC(NTCOC(‘C#éefense— Cid
e Movement to contact e Mobile defense
e Attack e Area defense
e Exploitation e Retrograde
e Pursuit
e Dislocate, isolate, disrupt, and destroy enemy forces e Deter or defeat enemy offense
e Seize key terrain e Gain time
e Deprive the enemy of resources e Achieve economy of force
e Refine intelligence e Retain key terrain
e Deceive and divert the enemy e Protect the population, critical assets, and infrastructure
e Provide a secure environment for stability tasks e Refine intelligence

e Establish civil security e Provide support to domestic disasters

e Establish civil control e Provide support for domestic, chemical, biological,

e Restore essential services radiological, and nuclear incidents

e Support to governance e Provide support for domestic civilian law enforcement

e Support to economic and infrastructure development agencies

e Conduct security cooperation e Provide other designated support

e Provide a secure environment e Save lives

e Secure land areas e Restore essential services

e Meet the critical needs of the population e Maintain or restore law and order

e Gain support for host-nation government e Protect infrastructure and property

e Shape the environment for interagency and host-nation e Support maintenance or restoration of local government
success e Shape the environment for intergovernmental success

e Promote security, build partner capacity, and provide access

e Refine intelligence

Offense

1-34, An offensive operation is an operation to defeat and destroy enemy forces and gain control of terrain,
resources, and population centers (ADP 3-0). Offensive operations impose the commander’s will on the
enemy. The offense is the most direct means of seizing, retaining, and exploiting the initiative to gain a
physical and psychological advantage. In the offense, the decisive operation is a sudden action directed
toward enemy vulnerabilities and capitalizing on speed, surprise, and shock. If that operation fails to destroy
the enemy, operations continue until enemy forces are defeated. Executing offensive operations compels the
enemy to react, creating new or larger vulnerabilities the attacking force can exploit. (See ADP 3-90 for a
detailed discussion of offensive operations.)

1-8 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Operations and Intelligence

1-35. Offensive operations at all levels require effective intelligence to assist the commander in avoiding the
threat’s main strength and to deceive and surprise the threat. The entire staff, led by the intelligence staff,
develops IPB products to assist the commander in identifying all aspects in the area of interest that can affect
mission accomplishment within all domains. The IPB process is collaborative and requires information from
all staff elements and some subordinate units that use IPB results and products for planning.

1-36, The intelligence staff supports the commander’s use of information collection assets to visualize the
terrain, determine threat strengths and dispositions, and confirm or deny threat courses of action (COAs).
These assets also collect information concerning the civil considerations within the AO. The G-2/S-2 and
G-3/S-3, in coordination with the rest of the staff, develop a synchronized and integrated information
collection plan that satisfies the commander’s information requirements.

Defense

1-37. A defensive operation is an operation to defeat an enemy attack, gain time, economize forces, and
develop conditions favorable for offensive or stability operations (ADP 3-0). Normally, the defense cannot
achieve a decisive victory. However, it sets conditions for a counteroffensive or a counterattack that enables
forces to regain the initiative. Defensive operations are a counter to an enemy offensive action. They defeat
attacks, destroying as much of the attacking enemy as possible. They also preserve control over land,
resources, and populations. The purpose of defensive operations is to retain key terrain, guard populations,
protect lines of communications, and protect critical capabilities against enemy attacks. Commanders can
conduct defensive operations to gain time and economize forces so offensive operations can be executed
elsewhere. (See ADP 3-90 for a detailed discussion of defensive operations.)

1-38. The intelligence staff supports the commander’s use of information collection assets to visualize the
terrain, determine threat strengths and dispositions, and confirm or deny threat COAs. Defending commanders
can then decide where to arrange their forces in an economy-of-force role to defend and shape the battlefield.
Intelligence analysis assists commanders in deciding on the precise time and place to counterattack. The G-2/S-2
and G-3/S-3, in coordination with the rest of the staff, develop a synchronized and integrated information
collection plan that satisfies the commander’s information requirements.

Stability

1-39, A stability operation is an operation conducted outside of the United States in coordination with other
instruments of national power to establish or maintain a secure environment, provide essential government
services, emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief (ADP 3-0). These operations
support governance by a host nation, an interim government, or a military government. Stability involves
coercive and constructive actions. Stability assists in building relationships among unified action partners
and promoting U.S. security interests. It can help establish political, legal, social, and economic institutions
in an area while supporting transition of responsibility to a legitimate authority. Commanders are legally
required to conduct minimal-essential stability tasks when controlling populated AOs. These tasks include
providing security, food, water, shelter, and medical treatment.

1-40, For stability operations, commanders often require more detailed intelligence and IPB products to
determine how best to conduct operations and influence the local populace to enhance stability. The
identification and analysis of threats, terrain and weather, and civil considerations are critical in determining
the most effective missions, tasks, and locations to conduct specific stability tasks. A lack of knowledge
concerming insurgents, local politics, customs, culture, and how to differentiate between local combatants
often leads to U.S. actions that can result in unintended and disadvantageous consequences. Consequences
can include attacking unsuitable targets or offending or causing mistrust among the local population. This
lack of knowledge could potentially threaten mission accomplishment. The G-2/S-2 and G-3/S-3, in
coordination with the rest of the staff, develop a synchronized and integrated information collection plan that
satisfies the commander’s information requirements. (For more information on stability operations, see
ADP 3-07.)

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 1-9


Chapter 1

Defense Support of Civil Authorities

INT

1-41, Defense support of civil authorities is support provided by United States Federal military forces,
Department of Defense civilians, Department of Defense contract personnel, Department of Defense
component assets, and National Guard forces (when the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the
governors of the affected states, elects and requests to use those forces in Title 32, United States Code, status)
in response to requests for assistance from civil authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement
support, and other domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special events (DODD 3025.18).

1-42, DSCA is a task executed in the homeland and U.S. territories. It is conducted to support another
primary agency, lead federal agency, or local authority. When DCSA is authorized, it consists of four tasks
(see table 1-1 on page 1-8). (See DODD 3025.18 for the full name and discussion of each task.) National
Guard forces—Title 32 or state active forces under the command and control of the governor and adjutant
general—are usually the first forces to respond on behalf of state authorities. When Federal military forces
are employed for DCSA activities, they remain under Federal military command and control at all times.
(See JP 3-28 and ADP 3-28 for detailed DSCA discussions.)

1-43, The concepts and basic processes used to produce intelligence to support decision making for DSCA
are no different from those used during offensive, defensive, and stability operations. However, the
operational environment is significantly different, and all commanders must ensure intelligence support in
DSCA remains within the guidelines of U.S. law and applicable policies.

1-44, Following DODM 5240.01, for procedures | through 10; DOD 5240.1-R, procedures 11 through 15;
and AR 381-10 procedures ensures adherence to regulations, statutes, and laws concerning intelligence
activities. In particular, intelligence operations must adhere to regulations and directives that implement
restrictions in compliance with intelligence oversight requirements. Further, any use of intelligence
capabilities for purposes other than those designated in the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Standing DSCA
Execute Order must be expressly approved by the Secretary of Defense. Information collection conducted to
support the commander focuses on saving lives and reducing risk to Army forces. Commanders and
intelligence professionals consult with staff judge advocates concerning any unclear areas of intelligence
activities.

1-45, The intelligence process, some information collection units and systems, and intelligence analysis may
assist in supporting the four DSCA core tasks. Army National Guard activities in Title 32, United States
Code (USC), status and Regular Army and Army Reserve intelligence activities in Title 10, USC, status can
perform intelligence tasks that support DSCA. (See ATP 2-91.7 for more information.)

ELLIGENCE SUPPORT WITHIN MULTI-DOMAIN OPERATIONS

1-46, Army operations and battles will invariably involve challenges across multiple domains. All Army
operations are multi-domain operations and all battles are multi-domain battles. Examples of Army multi-
domain operations and activities include airborne and air assault operations, air and missile defense, fires,
aviation, cyberspace electromagnetic activities, information operations, space operations, military deception,
and information collection. Key considerations for operating in multiple domains are—

e Command and control.
Reconnaissance in depth.
Mobility.

Cross-domain fires.

Tempo and convergence of effects.
Protection.

Sustainment.

Information operations.

Cyberspace electromagnetic activities.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Operations and Intelligence

1-47, Army forces may be required to conduct operations across multiple domains to gain freedom of action
for other members of the joint force. This is similar to other members of the joint force operating across
multiple domains to assist in providing land forces with positions of relative advantage. Examples of these
operations include neutralizing enemy integrated air defenses, destroying long-range surface-to-surface fires
systems, denying enemy access to an AO, disrupting enemy command and control, protecting friendly
networks, conducting tactical deception, or disrupting an enemy’s ability to conduct information warfare.

1-48, Every echelon is affected by the multi-domain extended battlefield; each should consider time,
geography, decision making, the EMS, and the other domains differently. However, not every echelon is able
to effectively conduct operations across multiple domains. Brigade combat teams (BCTs) and lower echelons
focused on fighting in the close area generally lack the time and ability to effectively plan and employ multi-
domain capabilities other than those already under their control. These echelons focus on fundamental
operational aspects such as mobility, lethality, and protection. The division is the first echelon able to
effectively plan and coordinate for the employment of all multi-domain capabilities across the operational
framework (including the considerations—physical, temporal, virtual, cognitive). Theater army and corps
echelons have a broader perspective, better focus, and far more capabilities to orchestrate and converge multi-
domain activities and operations in time and space. Through these activities and operations, intelligence is
critical in assisting friendly forces to effectively identify and exploit windows of opportunity across the
domains to create and exploit temporary windows of superiority. (See FM 3-0 for more information on the
multi-domain extended battlefield and operational framework.)

1-49, These operations require a significant amount of detailed intelligence to facilitate the commander’s
visualization of the threat, threat capabilities, and relevant aspects of the operational environment in time and
space. This intelligence support assists commanders and staffs in deciding when and where to concentrate
sufficient combat power to defeat the threat while mitigating risk.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 1-11


This page intentionally left blank.


Chapter 2
Intelligence Support

Army intelligence as a function supports operations by accomplishing various
intelligence tasks and activities for commanders and staffs. To provide this support, the
intelligence staff, augmented with an analysis element and capabilities, performs
intelligence analysis to support the commander and command and control, including
the staff integrating processes. MI units collect information from across the operational
environment and in each domain and the information environment. The results from
this information collection effort provide information for analysis and production into
intelligence. This intelligence support occurs at each echelon, from theater army down
to the battalion level, within an overarching national to tactical intelligence
architecture. Together with the commander, staff, and all units, this functional system
is known as the Army intelligence warfighting function.

THE PURPOSE OF INTELLIGENCE

2-1. Intelligence is a product, a process, and a function that enables the Army to conduct operations by
supporting the commander and command and control (which is accomplished by supporting the rest of the
staff). Commanders and staffs rely on many different types of intelligence products. The intelligence process
is continuous and directly supports the operations process by developing information requirements, collecting
on those requirements, processing data into information, analyzing information and intelligence from all
sources, producing intelligence, and when necessary, developing the situation through operations.
Intelligence is also a complex function.

2-2. Intelligence supports commanders (and in some cases other decision makers) and staffs by providing
situational understanding of the threat, terrain and weather, civil considerations, and other aspects of the operational
environment. Intelligence supports the commander and staff with analysis and production of effective timely,
relevant, accurate, and predictive assessments and products tailored to the commander’s and staff's specific needs.

2-3, Intelligence drives operations and operations enable intelligence; this relationship is continuous.
Intelligence supports the planning, preparing, execution, and assessment of operations by supporting
command and control. The command and control warfighting function integrates the elements of combat
power across the warfighting functions. To ensure effective intelligence support, commanders and staffs must
understand the interrelationship of command and control, the intelligence warfighting function, and
fundamental intelligence doctrine. (See figure 2-1.) (See ADP 6-0.)

Movement
and.

Maneuver
Competence

Shared .
Understanding Intelligence

Protection Mutual Trust

Command
Risk Leadership
Acceptance Mission
oe Command Commander's
Disciplined * Intent

Initiative

Mission .
Orders Sustainment

Figure 2-1. Interrelationship of command and control and the warfighting functions

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 2-1


Chapter 2

2-4. Commanders require intelligence about the threat and other aspects of the operational environment
before and during operations to effectively accomplish their missions. Intelligence assists commanders in
visualizing the operational environment, organizing their forces, and controlling operations to achieve their
objectives by answering specific requirements focused in time and space. These intelligence products enable
commanders to make decisions based on all available information, identify and assess potential COAs, plan
operations, properly direct their forces, and employ ethical, effective, and efficient tactics and techniques.
Additionally, intelligence supports protection by alerting commanders to threats and assisting in preserving
and protecting the force.

2-5, Supporting command and control and the staff integrating functions is complex. Operations, targeting,
intelligence, and communications are inextricably linked. Therefore, the commander must drive the
operations process partially by enabling the intelligence warfighting function. Commanders use their staff to
synchronize intelligence with the other warfighting functions to visualize the operations and disrupt the threat
simultaneously throughout an AO. Successful intelligence is the result of carefully developed requirements,
staff integration and synchronization, continuous information collection, and, when necessary, the
willingness to fight for intelligence.

2-6, Intelligence leaders (both in the intelligence staff and in MI units) ensure that the intelligence
warfighting function operates effectively and efficiently. They are the commander’s primary advisors on
information requirements, intelligence analysis, employing information collection assets, and fighting for
intelligence. Intelligence analysis is a thorough and deliberate process. Intelligence leaders provide the
commander with predictive assessments that consider all aspects of the threat, terrain and weather, and civil
considerations, and should provide the commander with an estimate about the degree of confidence the
intelligence leader places on each analytic assessment.

THE INTELLIGENCE WARFIGHTING FUNCTION

2-7. The intelligence warfighting function is the Army’s contribution to the joint intelligence effort. The
intelligence warfighting function is the related tasks and systems that facilitate understanding the enemy,
terrain, weather, civil considerations, and other significant aspects of the operational environment (ADP 3-0).
Specifically, other significant aspects of the operational environment include threats, adversaries, the
operational variables, and can include other aspects depending on the nature of operations.

2-8, The intelligence warfighting function encompasses more than the MI branch:

e The commander drives the operations process and focuses the intelligence effort that supports it.

e Intelligence is commander-centric. The commander performs the central role within intelligence
and enables the intelligence warfighting function.

e The entire staff is important to the intelligence warfighting function and each staff member
contributes to intelligence in a different way.

e During combat operations, the G-2/S-2, G-3/S-3, G-6/S-6, and fire support coordinator form the
staff core that is essential to synchronize and integrate intelligence.

e Every Soldier contributes to information collection.

INTELLIGENCE WARFIGHTING FUNCTION TASKS

2-2

2-9. The intelligence warfighting function facilitates support to the commander and staff through a broad
range of supporting Army Universal Task List (AUTL) tasks. (See ADRP 1-03.) These tasks are interrelated,
require the participation of the commander and staff, and are often conducted simultaneously. The
intelligence warfighting function tasks facilitate the commander’s visualization and understanding of the
threat and other relevant aspects of the operational environment. Army units at the Army Service component
command (ASCC) level or formed as a joint task force use the Universal Joint Task List (also called UJTL).
The intelligence warfighting function includes the following tasks:

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Intelligence Support

Provide intelligence support to force generation—the task of generating intelligence knowledge
concerning an operational environment, facilitating future intelligence operations, and tailoring

Provide support to situational understanding—the task of providing information and
intelligence to commanders to assist them in achieving a clear understanding of the force’s current
state with relation to the threat and other relevant aspects of the operational environment.

Conduct information collection—the task that synchronizes and integrates the planning and
employment of sensors and assets as well as the PED systems in direct support of current and

e
the force.
e
e
future operations.
e

Provide intelligence support to targeting and information operations—the task of providing the
commander information and intelligence support for targeting to achieve lethal and nonlethal effects.

2-10. Table 2-1 illustrates how the intelligence warfighting function tasks support the commander. (See

ADRP 1-03 for the complete list of tasks and their measures of performance.)

Table 2-1. Overview of intelligence warfighting function tasks

Intelligence tasks > Commander's focus >

Provide intelligence support to force
generation:

e Provide intelligence readiness.

e Establish an intelligence architecture.
e Provide intelligence overwatch.

e Generate intelligence knowledge.

e Tailor the intelligence force.

Provide support to situational
understanding:

e Perform IPB.

e Perform situation development.

o Provide intelligence supporto protection. i } } oy
e Provide tactical intelligence overwatch.

e Conduct police intelligence operations.

e Provide intelligence support to civil affairs
operations.

Conduct information collection:
e Collection management.

e Direct information collection.

e Execute collection.

e Conduct intelligence-related missions and
operations.

Provide intelligence support to targeting

and information operations:

e Provide intelligence support to targeting.

Provide intelligence support to information
operations.

e Provide intelligence support to combat
assessment.

COA course of action
DP decision point
HPT high-payoff target

31 July 2019

Orient on contingencies.

e Plan an operation.
e Prepare.
e Execute.
e Assess.
e Secure the force.

e Determine 2d and 3d order
effects on operations and the
populace.

e Plan information collection for
an operation, including PED
requirements.

e Prepare.
e Execute.
e Assess.

e Create lethal or nonlethal
effects against targets.

e Destroy, suppress, disrupt, or
neutralize targets.

e Reposition intelligence or
attack assets.

e Should the unit’s level of readiness be
increased?

e Should the operation plan be
implemented?

e Which COA will be implemented?
e Which enemy actions are expected?

e What mitigation strategies should be
developed and implemented to reduce the
potential impact of operations on the
population?

e Which DPs, HPTs, and HVTs are linked to
the threat’s actions?

e Are the assets available and in position to
collect on the DPs, HPTs, and HVTs?

e Have the assets been repositioned for
branches or sequels?

e Are the unit’s lethal and nonlethal actions
and maneuver effective?

e Which targets should be re-engaged?

e Are the unit’s information operations
effective?

HVT high-value target
IPB intelligence preparation of the battlefield
PED processing, exploitation, and dissemination

ADP 2-0



Chapter 2

2-11. There are intelligence-related AUTL tasks beyond the four most significant intelligence warfighting
tasks in table 2-1. Soldiers, systems, and units from all branches conduct intelligence-related AUTL tasks.
Every Soldier, as a part of a small unit, is a potential information collector. Soldiers develop a special
awareness simply due to exposure to events occurring in the AO, and they can collect and report information
based on their observations and interactions with the local population. The increased awareness that Soldiers
develop through personal contact and observation is a critical element of the unit’s ability to understand the
operational environment more fully.

2-12, Therefore, the Army established the every Soldier is a sensor (known as ES2) program, which is
accomplished through information collection operations among populations. The AUTL task to establish a
mission intelligence briefing and debriefing program is designed to assist units in collecting useful
information in their AO more effectively. This task is critical because units often operate in an AO
characterized by violence, uncertainty, and complex threats. (See ATP 3-55.4.)

2-13. Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure their decisions and actions comply with applicable U.S.,
international, and, in some cases, host-nation laws and regulations. Commanders at all levels ensure their
Soldiers operate in accordance with the law of war and the rules of engagement. (See the DOD Law of War
Manual and CJCSI 3121.01B [classified].) In some cases, there are certain sensitivities, ethical
considerations, and limitations to personnel conducting information collection—for example, civil affairs
and medical Soldiers. Medical personnel cannot be assigned information collection tasks due to their Geneva
Convention category status. If medical personnel do gain information through casual observation of activities
in plain sight while conducting their duties, they will report the information to their chain of command. In all
cases, Army professionals base their decisions and actions on the moral principles of the Army Ethic,
ensuring the protection of the inalienable rights of all people.

INTELLIGENCE CORE COMPETENCIES

2-14, The intelligence core competencies are the most basic activities and tasks the Army uses to describe and
drive the intelligence warfighting function and leverage national to tactical intelligence. At the most basic level,
the intelligence warfighting function makes observations about the threat and relevant aspects of the operational
environment through collection resulting in data that it processes and exploits into useable information for
analysis and production. This results in intelligence. Because of the complexity of this undertaking, the entire
effort must be synchronized carefully. The four aspects (in bold) capture the intelligence core competencies.
Commanders and staffs must thoroughly understand the core competencies to apply the intelligence process
and leverage national to tactical intelligence. The intelligence core competencies are—

e Intelligence synchronization (synchronized).

e Intelligence operations (collection).

e Intelligence PED (processes and exploits).

e Intelligence analysis (analysis and production).

2-15. The intelligence core competencies also serve as those areas that all MI units and Soldiers must
continuously train on to maintain a high degree of proficiency. Intelligence professionals have unique
technical training, intelligence oversight, and other oversight requirements in order to operate as part of the
DOD intelligence effort. MI Soldiers must continuously and rigorously train to thoroughly understand unique
authorities and guidelines, terms, and technical channel procedures.

Intelligence Synchronization

2-16, Intelligence synchronization is the art of integrating information collection; intelligence processing,
exploitation, and dissemination; and intelligence analysis with operations to effectively and efficiently
fight for intelligence in support of decision making. This core competency ensures the intelligence
warfighting function supports command and control. Intelligence synchronization balances time with collection,
production, required accuracy, and specificity to meet the commander’s intent and other requirements.

2-17, Intelligence synchronization requires an effective relationship with the commander, focused
information collection, effective dissemination of predictive assessments, and adaptability to changing
situations. Some critical aspects of effective intelligence synchronization include—

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Intelligence Support

Early and continuous teamwork with the commander and across the staff.

Expertise and proficiency in information collection, PED, and leveraging national to tactical
intelligence.

e Mastery of the intelligence process.
e Acollaborative environment for flexible, creative analysts to solve complex problems.

Intelligence Operations

2-18, Intelligence operations is one of the four primary means for information collection. The other three are
reconnaissance, surveillance, and security operations. Intelligence operations are the tasks undertaken by
military intelligence units through the intelligence disciplines to obtain information to satisfy validated
requirements. These requirements are normally specified in the information collection plan. Intelligence
operations collect information about the intent, activities, and capabilities of threats and relevant aspects of
the operational environment to support commanders’ decision making.

2-19, Intelligence operations, like reconnaissance, surveillance, and security operations, are shaping
operations used by the commander for decisive action. MI units use the operations process to conduct
intelligence operations. Intelligence operations are conducted using mission orders and standard command
and support relationships. Flexibility and adaptability to changing situations are critical for conducting
effective intelligence operations. To plan and then remain flexible and adaptable, MI units and the
intelligence staff must carefully deconflict and coordinate intelligence operations.

2-20. Deconfliction and coordination require a series of related activities that facilitate operations in another
unit’s AO. These activities facilitate successful intelligence operations and fratricide avoidance. At a
minimum, MI units coordinate for and report their presence and request information on any conditions or
ongoing situations that may affect how they conduct their mission. When possible, MI units and the
intelligence staff should conduct a thorough face-to-face coordination.

2-21. MI units must also coordinate with the appropriate staff elements to establish fire support coordination
measures around information collection assets, airspace control measures, and the appropriate weapons control
status (in reference to aerial information collection assets). Failure to conduct proper deconfliction and
coordination may result in mission failure or unnecessary risk to personnel. MI units’ leadership also coordinates
with the supported unit’s intelligence section for debriefings of returning members, convoy leaders, and others.

2-22, Intelligence coordination is also conducted by the intelligence staff to facilitate active collaboration,
laterally and vertically. It includes establishing and maintaining technical channels to direct, refine, and focus
intelligence operations. (See paragraphs 4-11 through 4-13 and FM 2-0 for more on technical channels.)

Intelligence Processing, Exploitation, and Dissemination

2-23. Army doctrine has long recognized the functions of processing, initial analysis, and reporting, and the
requirement for providing combat information. Joint and Army doctrine currently recognizes these functions
under the concept of PED and the core capability of intelligence PED. In joint doctrine, PED is an intelligence
concept that facilitates the allocation of assets to support intelligence operations. Under the joint PED
concept, planners examine all collection assets and determine if allocation of additional personnel and
resources is required to exploit the collected information.

2-24, Beyond doctrine, PED plays an important role in the development of DOD intelligence capabilities.
PED began as processing and intelligence exploitation support for unique systems and capabilities—for
example, full motion video from unmanned aircraft systems. Unlike previous geospatial intelligence
(GEOINT) collection capabilities, full motion video did not have an automated capability to process raw data
into a useable format and supporting personnel to perform initial exploitation. Therefore, a separate PED
capability was required. Since 2006, PED requirements across multiple disciplines have grown significantly,
and DOD has created many different PED capabilities across various echelons.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 2-5


Chapter 2

2-25. Processing, exploitation, and dissemination is the execution of the related functions that converts
and refines collected data into usable information, distributes the information for further analysis,
and, when appropriate, provides combat information to commanders and staffs. PED is not exclusive
to MI organizations; other branches employ sensor collection capabilities. Therefore, PED conducted by
intelligence personnel or units is called intelligence PED. Intelligence PED facilitates efficient use and
distribution of information following collection. In essence, intelligence PED is the way the intelligence
warfighting function processes collected data and information, performs an initial analysis (exploitation), and
provides information in a useable form for further analysis. During intelligence PED, some information will
be identified as combat information. In those cases, the combat information will be disseminated to
commanders and staffs.

2-26. An important part of intelligence PED is ensuring information is distributed with adequate context and
formatted to facilitate understanding or make subsequent analysis easier. Another important aspect of PED is
providing feedback on the effectiveness of collection relative to the information collection plan and expected
results. All PED methods are related closely to planning, information collection, control via technical channels,
and intelligence analysis and production requirements. Receiving feedback gives leaders and staffs the
information needed to maintain synchronization of intelligence operations with the overall operation. This
synchronization may include retasking MI collection assets or cueing other MI collection capabilities.

2-27, The current approach to intelligence PED reflects a deliberate solution to the increased complexity of
intelligence operations and the explosion of available data and information resulting from information
collection. This approach is part of meeting the enduring challenge to get the right information to the right
place at the right time. The amount of available data and information will continue to grow exponentially. In
response, the Army is emphasizing PED resourcing, planning, and execution, and maintaining a continuous
assessment of its usefulness. This approach is resourced with and executed by a variety of intelligence PED
capabilities leveraged throughout the Army and intelligence community.

Intelligence Analysis

2-28, Analysis is the basis for planning and staff activities. Analysis facilitates commanders’ and other
decision makers’ ability to visualize the operational environment, organize their forces, and control
operations in order to achieve their objectives.

2-29, Intelligence analysis is specific to the intelligence warfighting function and results in the production
of timely, accurate, relevant, and predictive intelligence. Intelligence analysis is the process by which
collected information is evaluated and integrated with existing information to facilitate intelligence
production. The purpose of intelligence analysis is to describe the current—and attempt to proactively
assess—threats, terrain and weather, and civil considerations. Intelligence analysis sets the stage for the
development of information collection requirements, which result in information collection and then more
intelligence analysis; this relationship is continuous. (See ATP 2-33.4 for more on intelligence analysis.)

2-30, Intelligence analysis is continuous, complements intelligence synchronization, and enables operations.
Some aspects that enable effective staff support and intelligence analysis include—

e Critical thinking. Critical thinking is essential to analysis. Using critical thinking, which is
disciplined and self-reflective, provides more holistic, logical, ethical, and unbiased analysis and
conclusions. Applying critical thinking ensures analysts fully account for the elements of thought,
the standards of thought, and the traits of a critical thinker.

e Embracing ambiguity. Well-trained analysts are critical due to the nature of changing threats and
operational environments. They must embrace ambiguity, and recognize and mitigate their own
or others’ biases, challenge their assumptions, and continually learn during analysis.

e Collaboration. Commanders, intelligence and other staffs, and intelligence analysts collaborate.
They actively share and question information, perceptions, and ideas to better understand
situations and produce intelligence. Collaboration is essential to analysis; it ensures analysts work
together to effectively and efficiently achieve a common goal. Often analytical collaboration is
enabled by DOD intelligence capabilities.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Intelligence Support

NATIONAL TO TACTICAL INTELLIGENCE

2-31. National to tactical intelligence comprises all U.S. intelligence professionals, sensors, systems,
federated organizations, information, and processes supported by a network-enabled architecture. While there
are many aspects to national to tactical intelligence, the most important element of the intelligence effort is
the people that make it work. The intelligence warfighting function is the Army’s contribution to national
intelligence.

2-32, The value of the national to tactical intelligence effort is the ability it provides to leverage information
from all unified action partners, including access to national capabilities, as well as nonintelligence
information, larger volumes of information and intelligence, and specialized analysis by unified action
partners. Collaboration is the central principle of conducting analysis. Army units provide accurate and
detailed intelligence on the threats and relevant aspects of the operational environment (especially those
related to Army activities), while other portions of the DOD intelligence effort provide expertise and access
not readily available to the Army. Additionally, DOD agencies provide governance over certain intelligence
methods and activities. Cooperation benefits everyone.

2-33. Analysts leverage higher-level intelligence organizations to create a more comprehensive and detailed
assessment of threats and relevant aspects of the operational environment (such as the multi-domain extended
battlefield, civil considerations, and sociocultural factors) to facilitate situational understanding and
visualization of the AO. An example of achieving greater efficiency between the intelligence and command
and control warfighting functions is the creation of fusion centers. Fusion centers are ad hoc cells designed
to enable targeting, facilitate current or future operations, and inform decision making. (See FM 2-0 for more
information on fusion centers.)

2-34, The effectiveness of the intelligence warfighting function hinges directly on collaboration and unity of
effort within the intelligence community. Numerous DOD and non-DOD agencies and organizations in the
intelligence community support Army operations by providing specific intelligence products and services.
The intelligence community has become increasingly important as new technologies facilitate collaborative
analysis and production. DOD members include the Defense Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency,
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, National Reconnaissance Office, and Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marine Corps Intelligence. Non-DOD members include the Central Intelligence Agency, Department of
State, Department of Energy, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of the Treasury, U.S. Coast Guard
Intelligence, Department of Homeland Security, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Office of
Director of National Intelligence. Intelligence community members establish standards in their respective
specialties. Effective intelligence staffs are familiar with these organizations and the methods of obtaining
information from them as necessary. (See JP 2-0.)

Note. Intelligence community is all departments or agencies of a government that are concerned
with intelligence activity, either in an oversight, managerial, support, or participatory role (JP 2-0).

NATIONAL AND JOINT INTELLIGENCE

2-35, National intelligence organizations employ specialized resources and dedicated personnel to collect
intelligence worldwide about trends, threats and threat capabilities, events and activities, and other national
intelligence requirements. National intelligence organizations primarily support national decision makers,
while also routinely providing support to the joint force commander. However, depending on the situation,
the focus of this national-level intelligence collection and production may meet some Army service needs.

2-36, The United States Army Intelligence and Security Command (INSCOM) is a direct reporting unit to
the Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, who conducts and synchronizes worldwide intelligence
collection across all disciplines and all-source analysis activities. The Army, in response to validated
requirements, may provide the theater and joint force with intelligence capabilities resident within INSCOM.
INSCOM also delivers linguist support and intelligence-related advanced skills training, acquisition support,
logistics, communications, and other specialized capabilities to support Army, joint, unified action partners,
and the U.S. intelligence community.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 2-7


Chapter 2

2-37. There are two types of units assigned to INSCOM: military intelligence brigades-theater (MIB-Ts) and
functional commands. There are seven MIB-Ts, each one tailored for the combatant command it supports.
These brigades provide collection, processing, analysis, and dissemination support to the ASCCs, combatant
commanders, and the intelligence community. INSCOM MIB-Ts are assigned through the appropriate joint
documentation process to geographic combatant commands (GCCs). GCCs routinely provide these brigades
in an operational control relationship to the supporting ASCCs.

2-38, INSCOM’s functional brigades and groups may provide general support, general support reinforcing,
or direct support to theaters of operations through intelligence reach, or they may be force tailored for
deployment to support the joint force. These brigades and groups, while not regionally aligned, work in
coordination with INSCOM’s MIB-Ts to effectively create a seamlessly integrated tactical to national
intelligence architecture. Functional commands within INSCOM have missions and capabilities focused on
a single discipline or operational function. Examples of this type of command include the—

e@ 902d MI Group (counterintelligence [CI]).

e Army GEOINT Battalion.

e Army Operations Group (human intelligence [HUMINT]) operating in direct support of Army
requirements.

e 704th MI Brigade providing signals intelligence (SIGINT) functional capabilities to support
national and Army requirements.

e 116th Aerial Intelligence Brigade (aerial intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance and
associated PED) to support combatant command and Army requirements.

e National Ground Intelligence Center (NGIC), which is the Army’s service intelligence production
center in response to national and Army requirements.

e Army Field Support Center.

REGIONALLY ALIGNED FORCES AND SETTING THE THEATER

2-8

2-39, Regionally aligned forces are those forces that provide a combatant commander at up to joint task force
capable headquarters with scalable, tailorable capabilities to enable the combatant commander to shape the
environment. They are those Army units assigned to combatant commands, those Army units allocated to a
combatant command, and those Army capabilities distributed and prepared by the Army for combatant
command regional missions (FM 3-22). Regionally aligned forces also include capabilities that are Service-
retained but aligned with a combatant command. Regional missions include theater security cooperation and
other shaping efforts. A large portion of joint and Army intelligence is regionally aligned.

2-40. Regionally aligned forces and other specified Army units require ready access to and seamless
interaction with their associated combatant command’s intelligence architecture. When an Army
headquarters enters a GCC theater as a joint force command, joint task force, or combined joint task force, it
primarily receives intelligence support through the joint intelligence architecture. Specifically, the GCC joint
intelligence center/joint intelligence operations center (also called JIC/JIOC) provides all-source intelligence
support unless another support relationship is established. Other Army units within the GCC depend on the
combatant command’s MIB-T for situational awareness throughout the area of responsibility. This
relationship allows units to tailor mission planning and training, establish an effective intelligence
architecture, and leverage DOD intelligence effectively. This concept refers to the MIB-T as the anchor point
within that specific theater.

2-41, The intelligence warfighting function must constantly set the theater for all Army forces across all
echelons of a deployed force in theater. Intelligence staffs and MI units must carefully transition intelligence
capabilities and activities to support all engagements and operations as the Army moves from shape to
prevent to prevail in large-scale ground combat and to consolidate gains. There are three core tasks involved
in setting the theater:

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Intelligence Support

e The intelligence staff plans, builds, and evolves an intelligence architecture based on the
information collection, PED, and analysis capabilities allocated or requested to support operations.

e The intelligence staff builds the knowledge needed to understand the operational environment
through coordination and collaboration with regionally aligned forces, using the MIB-T as the
anchor point. This task includes connecting the intelligence architecture to and incorporating
reports and products into the command and control systems.

e The intelligence staff supports theater security cooperation and engagements that develop context
and build relationships with unified action partners through the successful conduct of intelligence
operations, intelligence analysis, and intelligence PED.

ESTABLISHING THE INTELLIGENCE ARCHITECTURE

2-42. The intelligence architecture is the compilation and interrelationship of all relevant intelligence and
communications capabilities, data centers, organizations, supporting capabilities, concepts of operations, and
personnel necessary to ensure the successful execution of the intelligence process. It connects the units,
capabilities, PED activities, and analysts whose products and assessments inform decision makers. The
architecture consists of more than a unit’s organic intelligence capabilities, systems, and personnel. It
includes all elements of the intelligence network and associated communications architectures required to
enable intelligence operations to support mission requirements. (See FM 2-0 for more on intelligence units,
general capabilities, collectors and platforms, and specific technical capabilities and sensors.)

2-43, Planning the intelligence architecture is inseparable from long-range planning for future intelligence
operations. It is tied directly to the types and methods of support the commander directs. It is roughly
equivalent to developing a blueprint for a house and gathering the materials to build the house. The unit
cannot count on support from intelligence capabilities unless they are included in the intelligence architecture
and supported by interoperable communications.

2-44, The intelligence staff portrays the intelligence architecture in a series of planning products that map
the operational and technical aspects of the interoperability between the many components of the architecture.
The architecture includes but is more encompassing than the different intelligence, communications, and
technical networks. (Technical networks are those information management and information system
connections that allow sharing of resources and information.) Intelligence architecture products capture not
only networks and their technical specifications but also how the elements of the architecture relate and
interoperate with each other. These products should address mission tasks, technical control, tipping and
cueing, maintenance, security measures, medical evacuation, and force protection, among other
considerations. General intelligence collection capabilities are captured in detail, including specific collectors
or platforms and their specific technical sensors or capabilities, to avoid gaps in collection capabilities.

2-45, Planning and coordinating the intelligence architecture is critical during all types of operations. When
developing the intelligence architecture, the intelligence staff considers all personnel, organizations, systems,
and procedures necessary for developing intelligence, including those needed for intelligence operations. The
architecture must address bandwidth requirements, preparing for operations, collecting the required
information and analyzing it, producing the required products, disseminating the resulting intelligence, and
assessing both the intelligence produced and the process that produced it. It is critical for the intelligence
staff to work with the commander and the staff as early as possible and throughout planning to ensure the
intelligence architecture is addressed adequately. The G-2/S-2 also ensures the unit or organization and its
subordinates are adequately integrated into their intelligence architecture to enable effective information
collection, PED, and analysis to support mission requirements. This ensures the intelligence architecture
supports the necessary operational and technical connections between collection assets, control elements,
PED nodes, analytical cells, and headquarters to enable an effective and efficient information flow of
intelligence to decision makers and the rest of DOD.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 2-9


Chapter 2

INT

2-46. Effective communications connectivity, automation, and interoperability are essential components of
the intelligence architecture. These components are especially difficult to establish during large-scale combat
operations when tactical forces will not have fixed sites and a robust communications infrastructure is not in
place or are severely impacted by an adversary. Establishing the communications network involves many
complex technical issues. The intelligence staff collaborates closely with the signal staff to arrange the
required communications links. The intelligence staff requires classified and unclassified network
connectivity for its equipment. If elements of the intelligence staff will be working outside the range of the
unit’s communications systems, intelligence architecture planning must include coordination for global or
extended-range capabilities.

ELLIGENCE ACROSS ARMY ECHELONS

2-47, Army intelligence supports decisive action at all echelons. Specifically, the intelligence warfighting
function supports operations from the theater army down to the battalion level. The commander and staff
need accurate, relevant, and predictive intelligence to understand threat centers of gravity, goals and
objectives, and COAs. The commander and staff must also have detailed knowledge of threat strengths,
vulnerabilities, organizations, equipment, capabilities, and tactics to plan for and execute friendly operations.
Precise intelligence is critical to target threat capabilities at the right time and place and to open windows of
opportunity to achieve positions of relative advantage.

2-48. The basic intelligence support provided by the G-2/S-2 and intelligence staff at each echelon is the
same. What differs is the size, composition, and number of supporting capabilities for the intelligence staff;
access to higher-level information and intelligence; number and complexity of the requirements; and time
available to answer those requirements. In general, the higher the echelon, the greater the volume, depth, and
complexity (for example, detailed intelligence products about threat cyberspace activities) of analysis and
intelligence production the intelligence staff can perform. Lower-echelon G-2/S-2s and intelligence staffs
often must depend on the higher echelon for certain intelligence products and support. Therefore, the
commander and staff must understand the intricacies or specifics of the intelligence warfighting function
across each echelon.

2-49, MI unit structures and capabilities differ significantly across theaters and echelons. For example—
e Each theater army MIB-T is structured differently and has different capabilities and capacities.
e The corps expeditionary-military intelligence brigade (E-MIB) is the lowest level with organic CI
teams and HUMINT units specifically designated for detainee facility interrogations.
e The theater army, corps, and BCT have organic MI units—the MIB-T, E-MIB, and MI company
respectively—but the division and battalion do not have an organic MI unit. Note. Some of the
corps E-MIBs can be task-organized to support the division or even some BCTs.

2-50, These aspects of the intelligence warfighting function matter to the success of operations. Figure 2-2
provides a quick summary of the operations, intelligence staffs, and organic MI units at each level. (For more
information on the Army echelons, see FM 3-0; for more on intelligence units and capabilities from theater
army to the battalion level, see FM 2-0.)

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


National and Joint
Intelligence Collection

Broad range of intelligence capabilities:

Cl, HUMINT,OSINT, MASINT,
and TECHINT Services,
Reporting, and Databases

Intelligence Support

Theater Army
Intelligence Collection

HUMINT:
* Interrogations
* MSO

X ll
me] Ca]

* Document Exploitation Theater JDIC
* Debriefinas nterrogations

Other Disciplines: Cl, ll ll

GEOINT, MASINT,

OSINT, SIGINT, TECHINT [ar | NI

and Databases "9 AEB or Aerial Ground
ISR Task Force ~— SIGINT

The Intelligence Staff

Joint Force
J-2

Corps Division
G-2 G-2

Theater Army
G-2

BCT Battalion
$-2 $-2

Echelons Corps and Below Intelligence Collection

The corpsmay AEB
r — — + augmenta division with BCT

a brigade combat team
1 MI 1 anexpeditionary-MI cl

counterintelligence

MI
« — — 4 battalion, forexample, © EMIB  expeditionary-military intelligence brigade  MIB-T
assistant chief of staff, intelligence MSO

when the division isthe  G-2
main effort. GEOINT geospatial intelligence

HUMINT human intelligence

aerial exploitation battalion

I
GEOINT

HUMINT
SIGINT

JDIC joint debriefing interrogation center
MASINT measurement and signature intelligence
military intelligence
military intelligence brigade-theater
military source operations
OSINT open-source intelligence

battalion or brigade intelligence staff officer

$-2
ISR intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance SIGINT _ signals intelligence

J-2 intelligence directorate of a joint staff

TECHINT technical intelligence

Figure 2-2. Intelligence across the echelons

31 July 2019

ADP 2-0


This page intentionally left blank.


Chapter 3
The Intelligence Process

The Army views the intelligence process as a model that describes how the intelligence
warfighting function facilitates situational understanding and supports decision
making. This process provides a common framework for Army professionals to guide
their thoughts, discussions, plans, and assessments. Effective execution of the
intelligence process depends on commander and staff involvement and effective
information collection.

THE OPERATIONS PROCESS AND THE INTELLIGENCE PROCESS

3-1. Commanders use the operations process to drive the planning necessary to understand, visualize, and
describe their operational environment; make and articulate decisions; and direct, lead, and assess military

operations. Commanders successfully drive the operations process by using information and intelligence.

The design and structure of the intelligence process support commanders by providing intelligence needed
to support command and control and the commander’s situational understanding. The commander provides
guidance and focus by defining operational priorities and establishing decision points and commander’s

critical information requirements (CCIRs).

3-2. The joint intelligence process provides the basis for common intelligence terminology and procedures.

(See JP 2-0.) It consists of six interrelated categories of intelligence operations:
e Planning and direction.

Collection.

Processing and exploitation.

Analysis and production.

Dissemination and integration.

Evaluation and feedback.

3-3. Due to the unique characteristics of Army operations, the Army intelligence process differs from the
joint process in a few subtle ways while accounting for each category of the joint intelligence process. The
Army intelligence process consists of four steps (plan and direct, collect and process, produce, and

disseminate) and two continuing activities (analyze and assess).

3-4. The commander’s guidance drives the intelligence process. This process generates information,

products, and knowledge about threats, terrain and weather, and civil considerations for the commander and

staff. The intelligence process supports all of the activities of the operations process (plan, prepare, execute,

and assess). Although the intelligence process includes unique aspects and activities, it is designed similarly

to the operations process:

e The plan and direct step of the intelligence process closely corresponds with the plan activity of

the operations process.

e The collect and process, produce, and disseminate steps of the intelligence process together

correspond to the execute activity of the operations process.

e Assess and analyze are continuous. These activities form part of the overall assessment activity of

the operations process.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 3-1


Chapter 3

3-5. Intelligence support to operations requires leveraging national to tactical intelligence. This support is
coordinated through the intelligence staff at each echelon by using the intelligence process. Figure 3-1
illustrates the intelligence process.

Disseminate

* Intel products
* Dissemination plan

Plan and Direct
Analyze
+ Exploitation “IPB
* Single-source analysis * Collection management
* All-source analysis * Generate intel knowledge
* Research and intel reach
+ Plan the intel architecture

\

intel

> sake
Produce of a
* Fusion TaN,

* Federated production ;
+ Intel layers for he COP Analysis) @ | PED

Collect and

Assess
* Continuous monitoring Process
* Maintaining intel synch
* Ensuring effective intel ops Collect .
+ Information collection
* Intel ops
Process
+ Raw data converted into usable form
* PED accomplished through reach or performed
by the same unit that collected the data
First phase imagery, correlation, document
and media translation, and signal decryption
Distribution/Reporting

COP common operational picture IPB rn lo preparation of the battlefield PED processing, exploitation, and dissemination
intel__ intelligence ops _ operations synch_synchronization

Figure 3-1. The intelligence process

3-6. The G-2/S-2 produces intelligence for the commander as part of a collaborative process. The
commander drives the G-2/S-2’s intelligence production effort by establishing intelligence and information
requirements with clearly defined goals and criteria. Differing unit missions and operational environments
dictate numerous and varied production requirements to the G-2/S-2 and staff.

3-7. The G-2/S-2 and staff provide intelligence products that enable the commander to—

Plan operations and employ maneuver forces effectively.

Recognize potential COAs.

Conduct mission preparation.

Employ effective tactics, techniques, and procedures.

Take appropriate security measures.

Focus information collection.

Conduct effective targeting.

3-2 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


The Intelligence Process

COMMANDER’S GUIDANCE

3-8. Commanders drive the intelligence process by providing commander’s guidance and approving
priority intelligence requirements (PIRs). While it is not part of the intelligence process, commander’s
guidance is one of the primary mechanisms used to focus the intelligence process. When approving their
PIRs, commanders should limit the number of PIRs so the staff can focus its efforts and allocate sufficient
resources. Each commander dictates which intelligence products are required, when they are required, and
in what format.

INTELLIGENCE PROCESS STEPS

3-9. The intelligence process leverages all sources of information and expertise, including the intelligence
community and nonintelligence entities, to provide situational awareness to the commander and staff. The
intelligence warfighting function uses the intelligence process as a management tool to ensure the right
information gets to the right users at the right time in a useable format without inundating users. Just as the
activities of the operations process overlap and recur as the mission demands, so do the steps of the
intelligence process.

3-10. Intelligence activities are enabled by and subject to laws, regulations, and policies to ensure the proper
conduct of intelligence operations. While there are too many to list, legal authorities include the USCs,
executive orders (EOs), National Security Council and DOD directives, Army regulations, U.S. SIGINT
directives, status-of-forces agreements (also called SOFAs), rules of engagement, and other relevant
international laws. Commanders will request assistance from their servicing judge advocate to interpret or
deconflict these legal authorities.

PLAN AND DIRECT

3-11. Each staff element must conduct analysis before operational planning can begin. Planning consists of
two separate but closely related components—conceptual and detailed planning. Conceptual planning
involves understanding the operational environment and the problem, determining the operation’s end state,
and visualizing an operational approach. Detailed planning translates the broad operational approach into a
complete and practical plan. (For more information on conceptual and detailed planning, see ADP 5-0.)

3-12. The initial generation of intelligence knowledge about the operational environment occurs far in
advance of detailed planning and orders production. This intelligence assists in focusing information
collection once a mission is received or in anticipation of a mission. Commanders and staffs often begin
planning in the absence of a complete and approved higher headquarters’ operation plan or operation order.
In these instances, the headquarters begins a new planning effort based on a warning order and other
directives, such as a planning order or an alert order from their higher headquarters.

3-13. Intelligence planning is also an inherent part of the Army design methodology and the military
decision-making process. Intelligence analysts must prepare detailed planning products for the commander
and staff for orders production and the conduct of operations. Through thorough and accurate planning, the
staff allows the commander to focus the unit’s combat power to achieve mission success.

3-14. The plan and direct step also includes activities that identify key information requirements and
develops the means for satisfying those requirements. The intelligence staff collaborates with the operations
and signal staffs to plan the intelligence architecture. Collaboration facilitates parallel planning and enhances
all aspects of the intelligence process by enriching analysis, incorporating different points of view, and
broadening situational understanding. The staffs produce a synchronized and integrated information
collection plan focused on answering PIRs and other requirements. PIRs and other requirements drive the
information collection effort.

3-15. Commanders must employ organic collection assets as well as plan, coordinate, and articulate
requirements to leverage DOD intelligence capabilities. Commanders and staffs cannot expect higher
echelons to automatically provide all of the information and intelligence they need. While intelligence reach
is a valuable tool, the push of intelligence products from higher echelons does not relieve subordinate staffs
from developing specific and detailed requirements. Commanders and staffs must focus requests for
intelligence support by clearly articulating requirements.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 3-3


Chapter 3

3-16. The staff focuses information collection plans on answering CCIRs and other requirements and enables
the quick retasking of units and assets as the situation changes. Collection management includes continually
identifying intelligence gaps. This ensures the developing threat situation and civil considerations—not only
the operation order—drive information collection. Specifically, G-2/S-2s—

e Evaluate information collection assets for suitability (availability, capability, vulnerability, and
performance history) to execute information collection tasks and make appropriate
recommendations on asset tasking to the primary operations staff officers.

e Assess information collection against CCIRs and other requirements to determine the
effectiveness of the information collection plan. They maintain awareness to identify gaps in
coverage and identify the need to cue or recommend redirecting information collection assets to
the primary operations staff officers.

e Update the collection management tools as requirements are satisfied, added, modified, or deleted.
They remove satisfied requirements and recommend new requirements as necessary.

Requirements

3-17. For collection managers, there are three types of requirements resulting from collection management.
The following three types of validated information requirements are prioritized for purposes of assigning
information collection tasks:

e PIRs.

e Intelligence requirements.

e Information requirements.

3-18. Collection managers must understand how collection and PED assets are distributed as they develop
and validate requirements. They must also understand that some requirements can be answered through
intelligence reach. Figure 3-2 shows the process of developing requirements and integrating them into the
information collection process. (See FM 3-55 and ATP 2-01 for more details on requirements and indicators.)

MDMP
(Mission Analysis Information Collection Validated
and COR Analysis) Requirements Management Requirements
or

PIRs
(Must Collect)

Requirements
(Collect if Possible)

Collection Collection

Plan Tasks

Information Information Intelligence

Information
Requirements
(Reach/RF1)

COA _ course of action PIR __ priority intelligence requirement RFI request for information
MDMP military decision-making process RDSP rapid decision-making and synchronization process SIR specific information requirement

Figure 3-2. Requirements development

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


The Intelligence Process

Intelligence Reach

3-19. Intelligence reach is the activity by which intelligence organizations proactively and rapidly
access information from, receive support from, and conduct direct collaboration and information
sharing with other units and agencies, both within and outside the area of operations, unconstrained
by geographic proximity, echelon, or command. Information can be acquired through the push and pull of
information, databases, homepages, collaborative tools, and broadcast services. Intelligence reach also
supports reach PED and distributed analysis. (Reach PED refers to PED capabilities at centralized locations
where sensor data is disseminated for intelligence PED support.) Three important aspects of intelligence
reach are searches and queries, data mining, and collaboration. (See FM 2-0 for more information on
intelligence reach.)

COLLECT AND PROCESS

3-20. The intelligence staff synchronizes collection and processing to provide critical information at key
times throughout the phases of an operation. Collection and processing are mutually dependent. Staffs should
never allow a seam to emerge between collection and processing, even when elements conducting those
functions are separated geographically. The intelligence staff continuously monitors the results not only of
information collection but also of processing to continuously assess the effectiveness of the overall
information collection effort.

3-21. Information collection and processing activities transition when requirements change, the unit mission
changes, the unit proceeds through the phases of an operation, or the unit prepares for future operations.
Successful information collection and processing results in timely collection and reporting of relevant and
accurate information, which supports the production of intelligence. The intelligence staff coordinates with
other unit staffs, subordinate and lateral commands, and higher echelon units to ensure specific units,
capabilities, personnel, equipment (especially communications), and procedures are in place.

3-22. Collection is, in intelligence usage, the acquisition of information and the provision of this information
to processing elements (JP 2-01). Different units and systems collect information and data about threats,
terrain and weather, and civil considerations through the four primary means of information collection:
reconnaissance, surveillance, security operations, and intelligence operations. Collection includes the
maneuver or movement of units and systems to effective locations and the associated force protection
measures based on an order or tasking.

3-23. Successfully collecting timely, relevant, and useful information against an adaptive threat is difficult.
It is critical for the staff to plan for and use well-developed procedures and flexible planning to track emerging
targets, adapt to changing operational requirements, and meet the requirement for combat assessment. A
successful collection and processing effort requires the intelligence staff, intelligence analysts, and collectors
to form an efficient assessment and feedback loop. Success also requires the staff, analysts, and collectors to
watch for threat countermeasures, denial activities, and threat deception. The last step of the feedback loop
involves the intelligence staff evaluating reported information for its accuracy and responsiveness to
information collection tasks and providing feedback to control elements and collectors.

3-24. Intelligence personnel distribute collected data and information via appropriately classified means and
networks for further processing and analysis. During processing, intelligence personnel and systems convert
raw data into forms of information commanders, staffs, intelligence analysts, and other consumers can use.
Processing may occur immediately within the brain of the data collector, due to the collector’s operational
knowledge, experience, and situational understanding. However, intelligence personnel and systems often
perform processing as a separate but associated function, either at the point of collection or at a separate location.

3-25. Processing includes first-phase imagery exploitation, data conversion and correlation, document and
media translation, and signal decryption. For example, processing occurs when the technical parameters
(frequency, pulse repetition frequency, and bandwidth) detected by an electronic intelligence (ELINT)
collection system are compared and associated with the known parameters of a particular radar system.
Rather than providing an analyst with an overwhelming mass of raw ELINT data, the system provides the
analyst with the specific type of radar detected.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 3-5


Chapter 3

3-26. Different types of data require different degrees of processing before recipients can understand them.
Within SIGINT, processing is increasingly automated and quickly performed by collection systems.
Similarly, captured enemy documents may only require translation before an analyst can exploit the
information they contain. On the other hand, technical exploitation of an item of enemy equipment may
require months of intensive effort to determine its full capabilities. Following established guidelines, analysts
must ensure data passes to standardized databases as soon as possible. In some situations, data requires
processing to convert it into a format compatible with certain storage means.

3-27. At any point in the intelligence process, intelligence and time-sensitive combat information that affect
the current operation are disseminated immediately upon recognition. Combat information is unevaluated
data, gathered by or provided directly to the tactical commander which, due to its highly perishable nature or
the criticality of the situation, cannot be processed into tactical intelligence in time to satisfy the user’s tactical
intelligence requirements (JP 2-01). The routing of combat information proceeds immediately in two
directions—directly to the commander and through routine reporting channels for use by intelligence analysis
and production elements.

3-28. Generally, intelligence PED capabilities execute processing for intelligence operations. Intelligence
PED involves performing initial analysis to provide context, passing the information on for further analysis
or reporting of combat information, and providing feedback on the effectiveness of the collection effort.
These closely related PED functions are an inherent part of the collection effort. By performing them faster,
more efficiently, and more accurately, intelligence personnel improve the entire intelligence process.

PRODUCE

3-29. Production is the development of intelligence through the analysis of collected information and
existing intelligence. Analysts create intelligence products, conclusions, or projections regarding threats and
relevant aspects of the operational environment to answer known or anticipated requirements in an effective
format. The intelligence staff processes and analyzes information from single or multiple sources, disciplines,
and complementary intelligence capabilities, and integrates the information with existing intelligence to
create finished intelligence products.

3-30. Intelligence products must be timely, relevant, accurate, predictive, and tailored to facilitate situational
understanding and support decision making. The accuracy and detail of intelligence products have a direct
effect on operational success. Due to time constraints, analysts sometimes develop intelligence products that
are not as detailed as they prefer. However, a timely, accurate answer that meets the commander’s
requirements is better than a more detailed answer that is late.

3-31. The intelligence staff prioritizes and synchronizes the unit’s information processing and intelligence
production efforts. The intelligence staff addresses numerous and varied production requirements based on
PIRs and other requirements; diverse missions, environments, and situations; and user-format requirements.
Through analysis, collaboration, and intelligence reach, the G-2/S-2 and staff use the intelligence capability
of higher, lateral, and subordinate echelons to meet processing and production requirements.

3-32. Analysis occurs to ensure the information is relevant, to isolate significant elements of information,
and to integrate the information into an intelligence product. Additionally, analysis of information and
intelligence is important to ensure the focus, prioritization, and synchronization of the unit’s intelligence
production effort is in accordance with the PIRs and other requirements.

DISSEMINATE

3-33. Commanders and unified action partners must receive combat information and intelligence products
in time and in an appropriate format to facilitate situational understanding and support decision making.
Central to the successful dissemination to unified action partners is the early and continuous involvement of
the foreign disclosure officer and supporting foreign disclosure representatives. Timely dissemination of
intelligence and finished intelligence products is critical to the success of operations. Dissemination is
deliberate and ensures consumers receive intelligence to support operations.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


The Intelligence Process

3-34. This step does not include the normal reporting and technical channels otherwise conducted by
intelligence warfighting function organizations and units during the intelligence process. Each echelon with
access to relevant information may perform analysis on that information. Thus, each echelon ensures that
resulting intelligence products are properly disseminated. Determining the product format and selecting the
means to deliver it are key aspects of dissemination.

3-35. The commander and staff must establish and support a seamless intelligence architecture including an
effective dissemination plan. A dissemination plan can be a separate product or integrated into existing
products, such as the collection management tools. The plan must include provisions for dissemination to
unified action partners.

3-36. Intelligence and communications systems continue to evolve in their sophistication, application of
technology, and accessibility to the commander, staff, and unified action partners. Their increasing
capabilities also create an unprecedented volume of information available to commanders at all echelons.
The commander and staff must have a basic understanding of intelligence dissemination systems and their
contribution to the intelligence warfighting function.

Dissemination Methods and Techniques

3-37. There are numerous methods and techniques for disseminating information and intelligence. The
appropriate technique in any particular situation depends on many factors, such as capabilities and mission
requirements. Information presentation may be in a verbal, written, interactive, or graphic format. The type
of information, time allocated, and commander’s preferences all influence the information format. Answers
to PIRs require direct dissemination to the commander, subordinate commanders, and staff. Direct
dissemination is conducted person-to-person, by voice communications, or electronic means. Other
dissemination methods and techniques include—

e Direct electronic dissemination (a messaging program).

e Instant messaging.

e Web posting (with notification procedures for users).

e Printing or putting the information on a compact disk and sending it.

3-38. Disseminating intelligence simultaneously to multiple recipients is one of the most effective, efficient,
and timely methods, and can be accomplished through various means—for example, push or broadcast.

3-39. G-2/S-2s must plan methods and techniques to disseminate information and intelligence when normal
methods and techniques are unavailable. For example, information and intelligence can be disseminated
using liaisons or regularly scheduled logistic packages as long as any classified information is properly
protected and individuals are issued courier orders.

Dissemination Channels

3-40. Intelligence leaders at all levels assess the dissemination of intelligence and intelligence products.
Reports and other intelligence products move along specific channels within the intelligence architecture.
The staff assists in streamlining information distribution within these channels by ensuring dissemination of
the right information in a timely manner to the right person or element. The three channels through which
commanders and their staffs communicate are command channels, staff channels, and technical channels.

Presentation Techniques and Procedures

3-41. Presentation is important and serves as the conclusion of the intelligence process. One of the most difficult
challenges is effectively visualizing the operational environment. The intelligence staff must provide the
commander with relevant information that supports the commander’s visualization, facilitates situational
understanding, and enables decision making. The presentation method is based on the commander’s guidance but
often requires creative solutions to most effectively and efficiently present the intelligence and other information.

3-42. Presentations can be formal or informal. The three general methods the staff uses to present information
are written narrative, verbal narrative, and graphic format. Intelligence systems contain standard report
formats, maps, and mapping tools that assist the staff in presenting information. Audio and video systems,

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 3-7


Chapter 3

such as large format displays and teleconferencing systems, enable the staff to use a combination of these
methods in multimedia presentations.

INTELLIGENCE PROCESS CONTINUING ACTIVITIES

3-43. Analyze and assess are two continuing activities that shape the intelligence process. Analyze and assess
form part of the overall assessment activity of the operations process and occur continually throughout the
intelligence process.

ANALYZE

3-44. Analysis assists commanders, staffs, and intelligence leaders in framing the problem, stating the problem,
and solving it. Leaders at all levels conduct analysis to assist in making many types of decisions. Analysis occurs
at various stages throughout the intelligence process and is inherent throughout intelligence support to
situational understanding and decision making. Collectors and analysts perform initial analysis—often referred
to within intelligence as exploitation during the collect and process step—before reporting or otherwise
distributing the information to single and all-source analysis elements. For example, a collector may add context
to information (analysis) based on previously acquired experience and knowledge, prior to dissemination.

3-45. Analysis in collection management is critical to ensuring information requirements receive the
appropriate priority for collection. The intelligence staff analyzes each requirement to determine—
e The requirement’s feasibility and whether it supports the commander’s guidance.
e The best method of satisfying the requirement (for example, what unit or capability and where to
position that capability).
e Ifthe collected information satisfies the requirement.

3-46. Analysis is used in situation development to determine the significance of collected information and
its significance relative to predicted threat COAs and PIRs and other requirements. Through predictive
analysis, staffs attempt to identify threat activity or trends that present opportunities or risks to the friendly
force. They often use indicators developed for each threat COA as the basis for their analysis and conclusions.

ASSESS

3-47. Assess is part of the overall assessment activity of the operations process. For intelligence purposes,
assessment is the continuous monitoring and evaluation of the current situation, particularly significant threat
activities and changes in the operational environment. Assessing the situation begins upon receipt of the
mission and continues throughout the intelligence process. This assessment allows commanders, staffs, and
intelligence leaders to ensure intelligence synchronization. Friendly actions, threat actions, civil
considerations, and events in the area of interest interact to form a dynamic operational environment.
Continuous assessment of the effects of each element on the others, especially the overall effect of threat
actions on friendly operations, is essential to situational understanding.

3-48. The intelligence staff continuously produces assessments based on operations, the information
collection effort, the threat situation, and the status of relevant aspects of the operational environment. These
assessments are critical to—

e Ensure PIRs are answered.

Ensure intelligence requirements are met.

Redirect collection assets to support changing requirements.
Ensure operations run effectively and efficiently.

Ensure proper use of information and intelligence.
e Identify threat efforts at deception and denial.

3-49. The intelligence staff continuously assesses the effectiveness of the information collection effort. This
type of assessment requires sound judgment and a thorough knowledge of friendly military operations;
characteristics of the area of interest; and the threat situation, doctrine, patterns, and projected COAs.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Chapter 4
Army Intelligence Capabilities

The intelligence warfighting function executes the intelligence process by employing
intelligence capabilities. All-source intelligence and single-source intelligence are the
building blocks by which the intelligence warfighting function facilitates situational
understanding and supports decision making. The intelligence warfighting function
receives information from a variety of capabilities. Some of these capabilities are
commonly referred to as single-source capabilities. Single-source capabilities are
employed through intelligence operations with the other means of information
collection (reconnaissance, surveillance, and security operations). PED capabilities are
also necessary to process information and prepare it for subsequent analysis. The
intelligence produced based on all of those capabilities is called all-source intelligence.

ALL-SOURCE INTELLIGENCE

4-1. Army forces conduct operations based on all-source intelligence assessments and products developed
by the intelligence staff. All-source intelligence is the integration of intelligence and information from
all relevant sources in order to analyze situations or conditions that impact operations. In joint doctrine,
all-source intelligence is intelligence products and/or organizations and activities that incorporate all sources
of information in the production of finished intelligence (JP 2-0).

ALL-SOURCE ANALYSIS

4-2. The fundamentals of all-source intelligence analysis comprise intelligence analysis techniques and the
all-source analytical tasks: situation development, generating intelligence knowledge, IPB, and support to
targeting and information operations.

4-3. Through the receipt and processing of incoming reports and messages, the intelligence staff determines
the significance and reliability of incoming information, integrates incoming information with current
intelligence holdings, and through analysis and evaluation determines changes in threat capabilities,
vulnerabilities, and probable COAs. The intelligence staff supports the integrating processes (IPB, targeting,
risk management, information collection, and knowledge management) by providing all-source analysis of
threats, terrain and weather, and civil considerations.

4-4. All-source intelligence is used to develop the intelligence products necessary to aid situational
understanding, support the development of plans and orders, and answer information requirements. Although
all-source intelligence normally takes longer to produce, it is more reliable and less susceptible to deception
than single-source intelligence.

ALL-SOURCE PRODUCTION

4-5. Fusion facilitates all-source production. For Army purposes, fusion is consolidating, combining, and
correlating information together. Fusion occurs as an iterative activity to refine information as an integral
part of all-source analysis.

4-6. All-source intelligence production is continuous and occurs throughout the intelligence and operations
processes. Most of the products from all-source intelligence are initially developed during planning and updated,
as needed, throughout preparation and execution based on information gained from continuous assessment.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-1


Chapter 4

ALL-SOURCE AND IDENTITY ACTIVITIES

4-7. Joint doctrine describes identity activities as a collection of functions and actions that appropriately
recognize and differentiate one person from another to support decision making. They include the collection
of identity attributes and physical materials; their processing and exploitation; all-source analytic efforts,
production of identity intelligence and DOD law enforcement criminal intelligence products; and
dissemination of those products to inform policy and strategy development, operational planning and
assessment, and the appropriate action at the point of encounter. These functions and actions are conducted
by maneuver, intelligence, and law enforcement components.

4-8. Within intelligence, identity activities are the responsibility of the personnel within the all-source
elements of the intelligence staff. Within all-source, identity activities combine the synchronized application
of the complementary intelligence capabilities (biometrics, forensics, and document and media exploitation
[DOMEX]) with intelligence and identity management processes. This establishes identity, affiliations, and
authorizations in order to deny anonymity to the adversary and protect U.S. and partner nation assets,
facilities, and forces. These all-source activities result in the discovery of true identities; link identities to
events, locations, and networks; and reveal hostile intent. These outputs enable tasks, missions, and actions
that span the range of military operations.

SINGLE-SOURCE INTELLIGENCE

4-9. Single-source intelligence includes the joint intelligence disciplines and complementary intelligence
capabilities. Intelligence PED capabilities are a critical aspect of single-source intelligence activities that
ensure the results of collection inform single- and all-source analysis. MI units can conduct intelligence
operations with a single intelligence discipline or complementary intelligence capability or as a multifunction
intelligence operation, which combines activities from two or more intelligence disciplines or complementary
intelligence capabilities.

4-10. Information moves throughout various echelons along specific transmission paths or channels.
Establishing command and support relationships directs the flow of reported information during intelligence
operations. Channels assist in streamlining information dissemination by ensuring the right information
passes promptly to the right people. Commanders and staffs normally communicate through three channels:
command, staff, and technical. (See ADP 6-0 and ATP 6-02.71.)

TECHNICAL CHANNELS

4-11. Technical channels, while not a command or support relationship, often affect intelligence operations.
For intelligence operations, technical channels are the transmission paths between intelligence units
(including sections) performing a technical function requiring special expertise. Technical channels control
the performance of technical functions. They neither constitute nor bypass command authorities; rather, they
serve as the mechanism for ensuring the execution of clearly delineated technical tasks, functions, and
capabilities to meet the dynamic requirements of unified land operations.

4-12. Commanders direct operations but often rely on technical expertise to plan, prepare, execute, and
assess the unit’s collection effort. Technical channels also involve translating information collection tasks
into the specific parameters used to focus highly technical or legally sensitive aspects of the information
collection effort. Technical channels include but are not limited to—

e Defining, managing, or prescribing specific employment techniques.
Identifying critical technical collection criteria such as technical indicators.
Recommending collection techniques, procedures, or assets.

Conducting operational reviews.

Conducting operational coordination.

Conducting specialized intelligence training.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Army Intelligence Capabilities

4-13. Through technical channels, commanders and staffs ensure adherence to applicable laws and policies,
ensure proper use of doctrinal techniques, and provide technical support and guidance. Applicable laws and
policies include all relevant U.S. law, the law of war, international law, DOD directives and instructions, and
orders. For specific intelligence discipline collection, regulatory authority is maintained by national and DOD
intelligence agencies and is passed through technical channels. (See FM 2-0 for more on technical channels.)

THE INTELLIGENCE DISCIPLINES

4-14. In joint operations, intelligence collection and activities are commonly organized around the
intelligence disciplines, which include—

e CL.

GEOINT.

HUMINT.

Measurement and signature intelligence (MASINT).
Open-source intelligence (OSINT).

SIGINT.

e Technical intelligence (TECHINT).

4-15. The intelligence disciplines are integrated to ensure a multidiscipline approach to intelligence analysis,
and ultimately, all-source intelligence facilitates situational understanding and supports decision making.
Each discipline applies unique aspects of support and guidance through technical channels. (See JP 2-0.)

Counterintelligence

4-16. Army CI counters or neutralizes foreign intelligence collection efforts through collection, Cl
investigations, operations, analysis, production, and technical services and support. CI includes all actions
taken to detect, identify, disrupt, neutralize, or exploit foreign intelligence entity collection efforts directed
against DOD and Army personnel, operations, information, material, facilities, technology, and networks. It
is the key intelligence community contributor to protecting U.S. interests and equities.

4-17. Foreign intelligence entity is any known or suspected foreign organization, person, or group (public,
private, or governmental) that conducts intelligence activities to acquire United States information, block or
impair United States intelligence collection, influence United States policy, or disrupt United States systems
and programs. The term includes foreign intelligence and security services and international terrorists
(JP 2-01.2). It also includes insurgents, other adversary intelligence threats, and insider threats targeting or
suspected of targeting U.S. forces personnel, operations, facilities, networks, information, and technology for
intelligence gathering or planning and preparation for an attack or exploitation. (See ATP 2-22.2-1.)

4-18. The role of Army CI is to conduct aggressive, comprehensive, and coordinated investigations,
operations, collection, intelligence PED, analysis and production, and technical services. These functions are
conducted worldwide to detect, identify, assess, counter, exploit, or neutralize the foreign intelligence entity
collection threat. Army CI has four primary mission areas:

e Counterespionage. Counterespionage refers to those CI defensive and offensive endeavors to
detect, identify, assess, counter, neutralize, or exploit the foreign intelligence entity threat.

e Cl support to force protection. While force protection is the responsibility of commanders at all
levels, Army CI contributes to protection of the force. CI collection, analysis, investigations, and
operations are designed to identify foreign intelligence and international terrorist activities that
threaten military personnel, civilian employees, and units. Army CI exercises every available
authority to support the force protection plans of Army and supported DOD commanders
worldwide in accordance with AR 381-20 (classified), DODM 5240.01 for procedures 1-10,
DOD 5240.1-R for procedures 11-15, and AR 381-10. In the performance of this function, CI will
collect and report information that satisfies standing CI collection requirements.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-3


Chapter 4

e Cl support to research, development, and acquisition. This support is accomplished to prevent
the illegal diversion or loss of critical technology essential to the strategic advantage of the United
States in future conflicts.

e Cl-cyber. Cl-cyber refers to the use of techniques and measures to identify, exploit, or neutralize
adversary cyberspace espionage that uses the internet, information resources, and digital media as
the primary tradecraft methodology.

4-19. Cl core functions are interrelated, mutually supporting, and can be derived from one another. No single
function can defeat the foreign intelligence entity collection threat. The CI core functions are—

e@ Operations. CI operations are broadly executed CI activities that support a program or specific
mission. CI operations use one or more of the CI functions. CI operations can be offensive or
defensive, and they are derived from, transitioned to, or used simultaneously —depending on the
scope, objective, or continued possibility for operational exploitation.

e Investigations. Army CI will conduct aggressive and comprehensive investigations worldwide to
detect, identify, assess, and counter, neutralize, or exploit the foreign intelligence entity, foreign
and insider threat (as defined in DODI 5240.26) to the Army and DOD whenever such threat is
within CI jurisdiction.

e Collection. CI collection is the systematic acquisition of information concerning the foreign
intelligence entity collection threat. CI elements conduct collection activities to support the overall
CI mission. CI collection is conducted by using sources, elicitation, official liaison contacts,
debriefings, screenings, and OSINT to obtain information that answers standing CI collection
requirements or other collection requirements.

e Technical services and support. CI technical services are used to assist the CI core functions of
investigations, collections, and operations or to provide specialized technical support to a program
or activity. The proliferation of sophisticated collection technology, surveillance, and “eaves-
dropping” devices available in commercial markets enable any foreign intelligence entity with the
ability to increase its capability and effectiveness.

e Analysis and production. CI analysis is used to satisfy the supported commander’s intelligence
requirements and provide focus and guidance to CI operations. CI analysis and production can be
accomplished at any level in which Army Cl assets are assigned to support any of the four primary
mission areas.

4-20. CI organizations and force structure are designed to support Army forces through scalable team,
operations management, and technical channel packages. The CI and HUMINT staff officer (also called
G-2X/S-2X) structure supports decentralized CI operations. The establishment of the CI and HUMINT staff
element (also called 2X) and the CI coordinating authority throughout the Army ensures a trained and
experienced cadre of CI professionals to support operations. (See ATP 2-22.2-1 for more information on CI.)

Geospatial Intelligence

4-4

4-21. Geospatial intelligence is the exploitation and analysis of imagery and geospatial information to
describe, assess, and visually depict physical features and geographically referenced activities on the Earth.
Geospatial intelligence consists of imagery, imagery intelligence, and geospatial information (JP 2-03).
(Section 467, Title 10, USC, establishes GEOINT.)

Note. GEOINT consists of any combination of the following components: imagery, and/or
imagery intelligence with geospatial information.

4-22. Imagery is a likeness or presentation of any natural or man-made feature or related object or activity,
and the positional data acquired at the same time the likeness or representation was acquired, including:
products produced by space-based national intelligence reconnaissance systems; and likenesses and
presentations produced by satellites, aircraft platforms, unmanned aircraft systems, or other similar means
(except that such term does not include handheld or clandestine photography taken by or on behalf of human
intelligence collection organizations) (JP 2-03).

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Army Intelligence Capabilities

4-23. Imagery intelligence is the technical, geographic, and intelligence information derived through the
interpretation or analysis of imagery and collateral materials (JP 2-03).

4-24. Geospatial information is information that identifies the geographic location and characteristics of
natural or constructed features and boundaries on the Earth, including: statistical data and information derived
from, among other things, remote sensing, mapping, and surveying technologies; and mapping, charting,
geodetic data and related products (JP 2-03).

4-25. The GEOINT cell provides geospatial data generation, geospatial data analysis, geospatial data
management, quality control, and data dissemination. GEOINT supports the multidirectional flow and
integration of geospatially referenced data from all sources to achieve shared situational understanding of the
operational environment, near real-time tracking, and collaboration between forces.

4-26. GEOINT activities necessary to support operations include the capability to define GEOINT
requirements, discover and obtain GEOINT, put GEOINT in a useable form, and then maintain, use, and
share GEOINT. The GEOINT cell interfaces directly with the user to define user requirements. Then the cell
interfaces with the National System for Geospatial Intelligence to obtain and provide the best quality
GEOINT possible directly to the Soldier. (For more information on GEOINT, see ATP 2-22.7, ATP 3-34.80,
and AR 115-11.)

4-27. The GEOINT cell supports operations through five tasks:
e Define GEOINT mission requirements.

Obtain mission-essential GEOINT.

Evaluate available GEOINT data.

Use and disseminate GEOINT.

Maintain and evaluate GEOINT.

Human Intelligence

4-28. Human intelligence is the collection by a trained human intelligence collector of foreign
information from people and multimedia to identify elements, intentions, composition, strength,
dispositions, tactics, equipment, and capabilities.

4-29. A HUMINT source is a person from whom foreign information is collected to produce intelligence.
HUMINT sources can include friendly, neutral, or hostile personnel. The source may either possess first- or
second-hand knowledge normally obtained through sight or hearing. Categories of HUMINT sources include
but are not limited to detainees, enemy prisoners of war, refugees, displaced persons, local inhabitants,
friendly forces, and members of foreign governmental and nongovernmental organizations.

4-30. A HUMINT collector is a person who is trained, certified, and authorized to collect information from
individuals (HUMINT sources) for the purpose of answering information collection requirements. HUMINT
collectors are the only personnel authorized to conduct HUMINT collection operations. They are trained and
certified enlisted personnel in military occupational specialty 35M, warrant officers in 351M, commissioned
officers in 35F, and their Federal civilian employee counterparts. However, in order to conduct intelligence
interrogations, trained HUMINT collectors must successfully complete one of the following courses, which
are the only accepted interrogation training sources for military personnel:

e@ 35M Basic HUMINT Collector course at the U.S. Army Intelligence Center of Excellence, Fort
Huachuca, Arizona.

e USS. Marine Corps Basic Marine Air-Ground Task Force CI/HUMINT course at the Navy and
Marine Corps Intelligence Center, Dam Neck, Virginia.

e Joint Interrogation Certification course at the HUMINT Training-Joint Center of Excellence, Fort
Huachuca, Arizona. (Although this course has been discontinued, successful course graduates are
authorized to conduct interrogations.)

e Defense Intelligence Agency I-10 course, Alexandria, Virginia. (Although this course has been
discontinued, successful course graduates are authorized to conduct HUMINT interrogations.)

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-5


Chapter 4

Note. Certification is conducted at the discretion of the combatant commander in accordance with
established combatant command policies and directives.

4-31. HUMINT collection operations must be conducted in accordance with all applicable U.S. law and
policy, which include EO 12333 as amended; EO 13491; DODM 5240.01 for procedures 1-10;
DOD 5240.1-R for procedures 11-15; the law of war; relevant international law; relevant directives, including
DODD 2310.01E and DODD 3115.09; DOD instructions; AR 381-100; FM 2-22.3; and military orders,
including fragmentary orders. Additional policies and regulations apply to the management of contractors
engaging in HUMINT collection. Commanders will request assistance from their servicing judge advocate
to interpret or deconflict these legal authorities. (See FM 2-22.3, ATP 2-22.31 [classified], and AR 381-100.)

4-32. HUMINT operations collect information from human sources through overt and clandestine means.
HUMINT operations focus on a wide range of sources (such as detainees, refugees, civilians, friendly forces,
and recruited personnel) for information that includes but is not limited to an adversary’s plans, intentions,
and strategies; research and development goals; physical and cultural infrastructure; and medical information.

4-33. Every HUMINT questioning session, regardless of the methodology used or the type of operation,
consists of five phases. The five phases of HUMINT collection are—

e Planning and preparation. e Termination.

e Approach. e Reporting.

@ Questioning.
4-34. The phases are generally sequential; however, reporting may occur at any point within the process

when critical information is obtained and the approach techniques used will be reinforced, as required,
through the questioning and termination phases.

4-35. HUMINT collection methodologies include five categories:
e Screening. e Military source operations.
e Interrogation. e = Liaison.
e Debriefing.

Measurement and Signature Intelligence

4-6

4-36. Measurement and signature intelligence is information produced by quantitative and qualitative
analysis of physical attributes of targets and events to characterize, locate, and identify targets and events,
and derived from specialized, technically derived measurements of physical phenomenon intrinsic to an
object or event (JP 2-0). (For more information on MASINT, see JP 2-0 and ATP 2-22.8 [classified]).

4-37. MASINT collection systems include but are not limited to radar, spectroradiometric, electro-optical,
acoustic, radio frequency, and seismic sensors, as well as techniques for collecting chemical, biological,
radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) signatures and other materiel samples.

4-38. MASINT requires the translation of technical data into recognizable and useful target features and
performance characteristics. Computer, communications, data, and display processing technologies now
provide MASINT to support operations.

4-39. MASINT provides intelligence to the commander to facilitate situational understanding and support
targeting. Many sensors can defeat many of the camouflage, concealment, and deception techniques currently
used to deceive information collection systems. Specifically, MASINT sensors have unique capabilities to
detect missile launches; detect and track aircraft, ships, and vehicles; perform noncooperative target
identifications and combat assessments; and detect and track fallout from nuclear detonations. Often, these
sensors provide the first indicators of hostile activities.

4-40. The MASINT systems most familiar to Soldiers are employed by ground surveillance and CBRN
reconnaissance elements. These systems span the entire EMS and their capabilities complement the other
intelligence disciplines. MASINT provides, to varying degrees, the capability to—

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Army Intelligence Capabilities

Use automatic target recognition and aided target recognition.
Penetrate man-made and natural camouflage.

Penetrate man-made and natural cover, including the ability to detect subterranean anomalies or
targets.

e Counter stealth technology.

Detect recently placed mines.

Detect natural or man-made environmental disturbances in the Earth’s surface not discernible
through other intelligence means.

e Provide signatures (target identification) to munitions and sensors.

e Enhance passive identification of friend or foe.

e Detect the presence of CBRN agents including before, during, or after employment.
e Detect signature anomalies that may affect target-sensing systems.

4-41. Within DOD, the Defense Intelligence Agency provides policy and guidance for MASINT. Its policy
and guidance do not interfere with Service component operations. Each Service has a primary command or
staff activity to develop requirements and coordinate the MASINT effort. The Army G-2 staff is the
functional manager for Army MASINT resources, policy, and guidance. Army weapons systems programs
that require MASINT information to support system design or operations submit requests through INSCOM
channels for data collection and processing.

4-42. The scientific and technical intelligence (S&TI) community also performs MASINT collection and
processing primarily to support research and development programs and signature development. Every S&TI
center has some involvement in MASINT collection or production that reflects that center’s overall mission
(for example, NGIC has responsibility for armored vehicles and artillery). Service research and development
centers, such as the Communications-Electronics Command Research, Development, and Engineering
Center, the Army Research Laboratory, and the Night Vision and Electronic Systems Laboratory, are also
involved in developing sensor systems for collecting and processing MASINT. Elements within the Army
Space and Missile Defense Command also exploit satellite-collected data for the purpose of MASINT
exploitation. In addition to supporting the S&TI mission, INSCOM units also execute limited ground-based
operational collection to support the ASCCs and subordinate units.

Open-Source Intelligence

4-43. OSINT is integral to Army intelligence operations. Open-source intelligence is intelligence that is
produced from publicly available information and is collected, exploited, and disseminated in a timely
manner to an appropriate audience for the purpose of addressing a specific intelligence requirement
(Public Law 109-163). OSINT is exclusive to intelligence professionals using open-source information to
answer specific intelligence requirements. In contrast, open-source research is the gathering of data, facts,
instructions, or other material that is publicly available and used for general knowledge about a specific
person, location, weapons system, or other item of interest. Open-source research is not OSINT. Any staff
element may use open-source information to answer many different types of requirements.

4-44. Section 3038, Title 50, USC, and EO 12333 as amended govern OSINT. As such, OSINT is produced
by intelligence professionals to support Army commanders in developing an understanding of complex
situations, support fused all-source analysis, tip, and support intelligence operations and activities in other
intelligence disciplines. (For more information, see ATP 2-22.9.)

4-45. Open-source information is information that any member of the public could lawfully obtain by request
or observation as well as other unclassified information that has limited public distribution or access (JP 2-0).
Publicly available information is information that has been published or broadcast for public consumption,
is available on request to the public, is accessible online or otherwise to the public, is available to the public
by subscription or purchase, could be seen or heard by any casual observer, is made available at a meeting
open to the public, or is obtained by visiting any place or attending any event that is open to the public.
Publicly available information includes information generally available to persons in a military community
even though the military community is not open to the civilian general public (DODM 5240.01).

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-7


Chapter 4

4-46. There are many different forms of open sources, to include social, print, broadcast media; internet; and
open public-speaking forums. The collection means (techniques) for obtaining publicly available information
from these communications media must be nonintrusive.

Note. When there is any doubt about the conduct of OSINT activities, intelligence personnel
consult their unit or organization staff judge advocate. All OSINT operations conducted by
intelligence professionals must comply with the legal restrictions in EO 12333 as amended,
DODM 5240.01 for procedures 1-10, DOD 5240.1-R for procedures 11-15, Army Directive
2016-37, and AR 381-10. Intelligence personnel conducting OSINT activities must comply with
all operations security requirements prescribed in AR 530-1 to prevent disclosure of critical and
sensitive information.

4-47. The following characteristics from the role of OSINT in Army operations:

e OSINT provides the foundation. Open-source information provides updates to foundation
information and real-time ongoing information to assist in developing and enhancing intelligence
products and the intelligence disciplines. There is much information about the political, military,
economic, social, and infrastructure of a region or local area obtainable from open-source
information and readily changed to OSINT products. This foundation information and intelligence
products can be essential to generating a clear picture for the commander. The variety of
foundational websites associated with social structures, education systems, and news services
provides a foundational perspective for intelligence knowledge.

e OSINT addresses requirements. The availability, depth, and range of open-source information
enable intelligence professionals to satisfy many PIRs and information requirements without the
use of specialized human or technical means of collection.

e OSINT enhances collection. Open-source information supports other requirements and provides
information that optimizes the employment and performance of sensitive human and technical
collection means. Examples of this type of information include biographies, cultural information,
geospatial information, and technical data.

e OSINT enhances production. As part of single-source and all-source intelligence production,
the use and integration of OSINT ensure commanders have the benefit of all sources of available
information.

Signals Intelligence

4-48. Signals intelligence is intelligence derived from communications, electronic, and foreign
instrumentation signals (JP 2-0). SIGINT provides unique intelligence information, complements intelligence
derived from other sources, and is often used for cueing other sensors to potential targets of interest. For
example, SIGINT, which identifies activities of interest, may be used to cue GEOINT to confirm that activity.
Conversely, changes detected by GEOINT can cue SIGINT collection. The discipline is subdivided into three
subcategories: communications intelligence (also called COMINT), ELINT, and foreign instrumentation
signals intelligence (also called FISINT).

4-49. Communications intelligence is technical information and intelligence derived from foreign
communications by other than the intended recipients (JP 2-0). Communications intelligence includes
collecting data from target or adversary automated information systems or networks. It also may include
imagery when pictures or diagrams are encoded by a computer network or radio frequency method for storage
or transmission. The imagery can be static or streaming.

4-50. Electronic intelligence is technical and _ geolocation intelligence derived from foreign
noncommunications electromagnetic radiations emanating from other than nuclear detonations or radioactive
sources (JP 3-13.1). ELINT consists of two subcategories:
e@ Operational ELINT—is concerned with operationally relevant information such as the location,
movement, employment, tactics, and activity of foreign noncommunications emitters and their
associated weapon systems.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Army Intelligence Capabilities

e Technical ELINT—is concerned with the technical aspects of foreign noncommunications
emitters such as signal characteristics, modes, functions, associations, capabilities, limitations,
vulnerabilities, and technology levels.

4-51. Foreign instrumentation signals intelligence is a subcategory of signals intelligence consisting of
technical information and intelligence derived from the intercept of foreign electromagnetic emissions
associated with the testing and operational deployment of non-United States aerospace, surface, and
subsurface systems (JP 2-01).

4-52. SIGINT provides intelligence on threat intentions, capabilities, compositions, and dispositions. In
addition, SIGINT provides information for the delivery of fires. The intelligence staff needs to understand
how SIGINT assets are organized not only within the Army but also throughout DOD. The majority of
SIGINT assets from the Armed Services, combined with national SIGINT assets, collaborate to support
commanders from tactical to strategic levels. Only by understanding the SIGINT structure that transcends
traditional Service components can the intelligence staff understand how to use SIGINT effectively.

Technical Intelligence

4-53. Technical intelligence is intelligence derived from the collection, processing, analysis, and exploitation
of data and information pertaining to foreign equipment and materiel for the purposes of preventing
technological surprise, assessing foreign scientific and technical capabilities, and developing
countermeasures designed to neutralize an adversary’s technological advantages (JP 2-0). The role of
TECHINT is to ensure Soldiers understand the threat’s full technological capabilities. With this
understanding, U.S. forces can adopt appropriate countermeasures, operations, and tactics, techniques, and
procedures. (For more information, see ATP 2-22.4.)

4-54. A comprehensive TECHINT network is vital to providing precise direction and purpose to DOD
research and development and exploitation processes. This ensures quick and efficient neutralization of threat
technological advantages and networks in direct support of the commander and S&TI community.

4-55. TECHINT has two primary responsibilities within Army intelligence operations:
e Provide information to supported commands based on the technical analysis of foreign material in
accordance with those commands’ stated requirements.
e Provide technical assessments of foreign technological threat capabilities, limitations, and
vulnerabilities.

4-56. TECHINT includes S&TI, the Army Foreign Materiel Program, and weapons technical intelligence
(WTD:

e S&TI organizations track and analyze foreign technological developments. They analyze the
performance and operational capabilities of captured materiel that may have military applications.

e The Army Foreign Materiel Program is managed by the Army G-2. It is divided into foreign
material acquisition, foreign material exploitation, and disposition of material no longer needed.
The Army Foreign Materiel Program responds to U.S. weapons materiel developer TECHINT
requirements, tactical requirements, and training requirements.

e Asa function of counter-improvised explosive device operations, weapons technical intelligence
is a subcategory of technical intelligence derived from the technical and forensic collection and
exploitation of improvised explosive devices, associated components, improvised weapons, and
other systems (JP 3-15.1).

4-57. As a specific application of TECHINT, WTI combines technical assessments, forensic science, and
other critical enablers with all-source intelligence for use against irregular and nontraditional threats. WTI
operationalizes TECHINT and focuses on immediate exploitation of captured weapons to rapidly respond to
the tactical commander’s PIRs and other requirements. WTI integrates a range of collection, exploitation,
and analysis capabilities to support four critical outputs:
e To enable targeting by identifying, selecting, prioritizing, and tracking individuals and matching
them with groups, weapons materiel, financiers, suppliers, insurgent leaders, and other related
elements.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-9


Chapter 4

e To technically and forensically examine events and devices or weapons to identify observables,
signatures, and to better understand linkages between technical design and tactical use to guide
efforts of the protection warfighting function, as well as tip and cue information collection.

e To provide trend, pattern, and forensic analysis of improvised explosive devices, improvised
weapons, and weapons components usage to identify the origin of materiel and components.

e To use information from captured enemy materiel collected during site exploitation activities to
further detain and potentially support the prosecution of individuals for criminal activity.

4-58. Every TECHINT mission supports tactical through strategic requirements by the timely collection and
processing of materiel and information, follow-on analysis and resulting production of intelligence, and
dissemination to a wide range of consumers. Commanders rely on TECHINT to provide them with tactical
and technological advantages to successfully synchronize and execute operations. TECHINT combines
information to identify specific individuals, groups, and nation-states, matching them to events, places,
devices, weapons, equipment, or contraband that associates their involvement in hostile or criminal activity.

COMPLEMENTARY INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES

4-59. Complementary intelligence capabilities contribute valuable information for all-source intelligence to
facilitate the conduct of operations. The complementary intelligence capabilities are specific to the unit and
circumstances at each echelon and can vary across DOD. These capabilities include but are not limited to—

e Biometrics-enabled intelligence (also called BEI).
Cyber-enabled intelligence.

DOMEX.

Forensic-enabled intelligence (also called FEI).

Biometrics-Enabled Intelligence

4-60. Joint doctrine defines biometrics as the process of recognizing an individual based on measurable
anatomical, physiological, and behavioral characteristics (JP 2-0). Biometrics as a process of confirming
identity is not exclusive to the intelligence warfighting function. This enabler supports multiple activities and
tasks of other warfighting functions. Army doctrine defines biometrics-enabled intelligence as intelligence
resulting from the combination of biometric information with other intelligence, threat information, or
information relating to other aspects of the operational environment in order to answer intelligence
requirements (ATP 2-22.82).

Biometric Analysis

4-61. It is important for commanders, intelligence staffs, and all-source intelligence analysts across all
echelons to assist in consolidating identities, other information, and intelligence to support tactical objectives
as well as longer-term operational and strategic objectives. The production of biometrics-enabled intelligence
products is critical as persons of interest move from location to location (within an AO) or are elevated in
status (and move from one position to another) or as they transit from one AO to another. Products derived
from biometric collection can provide context that is critical—related to persons of interest and their intent—
to analysts across all echelons.

4-62. DOD biometric-enabled watchlist (BEWL) management is a mission assigned to NGIC. As the DOD
BEWL mission manager, NGIC is responsible for: discovering threat identities; reviewing unit nominations
(to ensure nominations meet DOD and intelligence community standards); maintaining, managing, and
disseminating BEWL subsets; and managing encounters. Development and management of the unit watchlist
is an intelligence staff duty. In producing their BEWL, units include collected biometric identities, related
contextual information, and intelligence for future reference or further analysis in the analytic system. Unit-
level and DOD BEWLs are shared through a dissemination process to provide an unclassified data set on
handheld devices to the other U.S. Government systems and the DOD biometric network for positive
identification of threat personnel.

4-10 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Army Intelligence Capabilities

Biometric Reports

4-63. Division and above echelons develop many biometrics-enabled intelligence products to support
operations, including—

e Biometric intelligence analysis reports (also called BIARs). This report is an intelligence
product that associates a biometric match with an individual in the biometric database. It is
produced by sorting, analyzing, and linking the biometric match with the individual’s history,
along with all-source intelligence. It may contain the identification, background, assessment, and
intelligence value of the subject.

e BEWLs. The BEWL is the primary analytic product produced through the all-source analysis
production of collected and processed identity records. It is exported from the analytic tool and
shared with the biometric network to identify persons of interest within biometric matching
systems and handheld devices. Establishing the BEWL to support specified missions is an
intelligence staff-level responsibility. The intelligence staff can customize the BEWL based on
the unit’s assigned mission and rules of engagement. Assistance in establishing a new customized
BEWL based on a unit’s assigned mission can be coordinated through INSCOM and NGIC. After
establishing the customized BEWL, the nomination, removal, or change process is automated
through the analytic tool. (For more information, see ATP 2-22.82).

Cyber-Enabled Intelligence

4-64. The cyberspace domain provides another medium for information collection. Cyber-enabled
intelligence is a complementary intelligence capability that provides the ability to collect information and
produce intelligence products that portray the threat’s ability to operate within the cyberspace domain and
the effect of the threat on friendly capabilities. Cyber-enabled intelligence is produced through the
combination of intelligence analysis and information concerning activities in cyberspace and the EMS. This
intelligence supports situational understanding of the cyberspace domain. Cyber-enabled intelligence is based
on operations conducted within the cyberspace domain and does not include operations and dominance within
the EMS.

Note. The results of cyberspace electromagnetic activities can provide intelligence professionals
with a significant amount of information concerning both the physical domain and the information
environment.

4-65. Cyber-enabled intelligence facilitates decision making at all levels through the analysis and production
of relevant and tailored intelligence on activities in the cyberspace domain that may affect the unit’s ability
to conduct operations. The intelligence can range from broadly disseminated products focused on general
users to very specific and narrowly focused analysis and reports distributed via classified channels. The use
of cyber-enabled intelligence facilitates an understanding of the threat’s cyberspace electromagnetic
capabilities, intentions, potential actions, and vulnerabilities, and their impacts on the environment, friendly
operations, and the local populace.

4-66. The mission, authority, and oversight of an activity determine whether the activity is cyber-enabled
intelligence or cyberspace-controlled. For example, the use of computers, technology, and networks facilitate
all-source intelligence, the intelligence disciplines, and the other complementary intelligence capabilities.
However, their use of computers, technology, and networks does not mean these are cyberspace operations.
The authority for each discipline or capability governs the guiding methods and regulations for the conduct
of each intelligence discipline or complementary intelligence capability.

Document and Media Exploitation

4-67. Document and media exploitation is the processing, translation, analysis, and dissemination of
collected hardcopy documents and electronic media that are under the U.S. Government's physical control
and are not publicly available (ATP 2-91.8). Threat intent, capabilities, and limitations may be derived
through the exploitation of captured documents and media.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-11


Chapter 4

4-68. DOMEX is an increasingly specialized, full-time mission requiring advanced automation and
communications support, analytical support, and expert linguists. When conducted properly, DOMEX—

e Provides the commander an initial assessment of captured information.

e@ Maximizes the value of intelligence gained from captured enemy documents and media.

e Provides the commander with timely and relevant intelligence to effectively enhance awareness
of the threat’s capabilities, operational structures, and intent.

e Assists in criminal prosecution or legal proceedings by maintaining chain of custody procedures
and preserving the evidentiary value of captured enemy materiel, documents, and media.

4-69. DOMEX products become a force multiplier only when captured materials are rapidly exploited at the
lowest echelon possible. DOMEX assets pushed down to the tactical level provide timely and accurate
intelligence support. These assets are primarily responsible for screening and tactical exploitation of captured
documents and media. This practice not only enables rapid exploitation and evacuation of captured materials
but also hastens the feedback commanders receive from the higher echelon analysis. DOMEX assets also
deliver items of operational or strategic value to higher level processing facilities for further exploitation.
Intelligence staffs need to use the appropriate communications medium to pass vital information to the lowest
echelon, especially to the capturing unit.

4-70. It is essential to pass critical information quickly to those who need it, specifically, tactical
commanders. Intelligence staffs are responsible for reporting and disseminating DOMEX-derived
information in a manner that ensures the information reaches not only the next higher echelon but also the
tactical commander most affected by the information.

4-71. DOMEX personnel are usually not available below the battalion level except in MI organizations. This
requires maneuver battalion intelligence staffs to prepare their subordinate units for DOMEX tasks. When
intelligence and personnel qualified in the appropriate languages for the AO are available, they can be task-
organized as intelligence support teams and placed with companies or platoons. Alternatively, the
intelligence section can train company or platoon personnel in specific handling, screening, and inventorying
techniques.

4-72. Where tactical assets are insufficient, operational and strategic assets can support a unit’s organic
assets, either by personnel augmentation or by virtual support from DOMEX support elements, who provide
this support worldwide. These organizations use specialized techniques and procedures to extract additional
information from captured audio and video materials. Application of specialized processing techniques and
procedures may require the classification of the processed information and restrict its dissemination. (For
more information on DOMEX, see ATP 2-91.8.)

Forensic-Enabled Intelligence

4-73. Forensics involves the scientific analysis of linking persons, places, things, and events. Forensic-
enabled intelligence is the intelligence resulting from the integration of scientifically examined materials and
other information to establish full characterization, attribution, and the linkage of events, locations, items,
signatures, nefarious intent, and persons of interest (JP 2-0).

4-74. Forensic techniques provide timely and accurate information that facilitates situational understanding
and supports decision making. This includes collecting, identifying, and labeling collected items for future
exploitation. The collection of latent fingerprints, deoxyribonucleic acid (known as DNA), and other forensic
data can aid in more in-depth analysis and better intelligence about the operational environment.

4-75. Forensic-enabled intelligence assists in accurately identifying persons, networks, and complex threats,
and attributes them to specific incidents and activities. The effort is often critical in supporting the targeting
process. Forensic-enabled intelligence can identify and determine the source of origin of captured materiel,
documents, and media. Accurate site documentation of incidents or events, material and structural analysis,
and supporting data and information from the various forensic processes and techniques can provide valuable
data and enhance operational tactics, techniques, and procedures. For example, timely trace detection or
material analysis of unknown substances can assist in protecting the force from contaminants, toxins, and
other hazards. Incorporating information obtained via toxicology, pathology and other forensic techniques
into forensic-enabled intelligence can assist in identifying health threats within the AO.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Army Intelligence Capabilities

INTELLIGENCE PROCESSING, EXPLOITATION, AND DISSEMINATION CAPABILITIES

4-76. Intelligence PED capabilities are the personnel, specialized intelligence and communications systems,
software and advanced technologies that execute the PED functions. Intelligence PED operations can be
performed either from a deployed expeditionary location or a reach site in theater or the United States.
Intelligence PED capabilities can be organic to the intelligence unit, task-organized, or distributed from a
centralized location through the network as required.

4-77. The G-2/S-2 advises the staff on intelligence PED requirements and capabilities when planning
information collection operations. The commander and staff resource and prioritize supporting intelligence
capabilities, including expeditionary or reach PED capabilities, through thorough staff planning (based on
recommendations from the G-2/S-2).

4-78. When requesting intelligence PED capabilities, the gaining G-2/S-2 and intelligence unit commander are
responsible for coordinating and planning intelligence PED activities. However, the allocating echelon is also
responsible for ensuring adequate planning, coordination, and use of PED capabilities. Some intelligence PED
capability employment considerations for the gaining G-2/S-2 and intelligence unit commander include—

e Intelligence architecture. Employment of intelligence PED capabilities depends on how the
collection asset and supporting PED element or unit fits into the intelligence architecture. The
employment is also specific to the intelligence discipline or complementary intelligence capability
and supported echelon. MI units should capture their functional requirements during planning to
ensure they request adequate intelligence PED capabilities.

e Communications. All intelligence operations depend on integrating multiple communications
systems, networks, and information services. It is important to consider and understand hardware
and software requirements and compatibility, interoperability issues, bandwidth priority and
capacity, and maintenance requirements.

e Reporting. Operating effectively within the intelligence architecture requires system operators to
understand PED and reporting procedures, requirements, and timelines for operations and
intelligence channels as well as for technical channels.

e Targeting criteria. Supporting lethal and nonlethal effects require system operators to be
thoroughly knowledgeable with the different targeting criteria, including minimum accuracy and
timeliness standards for each specific high-payoff target.

e Technical channels. System operators must understand how technical channels operate and how
to use technical guidance to enhance collection. Additionally, intelligence PED capabilities assist
in refining technical guidance.

e Training. Intelligence leaders inform the commander and staff on intelligence PED capabilities
and limitations. Facilitating the integration of intelligence PED capabilities requires intelligence
leaders to conduct training with the intelligence unit and intelligence PED system operators,
analysts, and maintainers.

e Sustainment. Intelligence PED capabilities and resources can provide a significant maintenance
and logistic challenge to the intelligence unit. Reducing these challenges requires the intelligence
unit to conduct thorough planning and coordination.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 4-13


This page intentionally left blank.


Chapter 5
Fighting for Intelligence

Since Army forces compete with an adaptive enemy; perfect planning and information
collection seldom occurs. Intelligence is not perfect, information collection is not easy,
and a single collection capability is not persistent and accurate enough to provide all
of the answers. During large-scale ground combat operations, Army forces will have
to fight for intelligence. To achieve situational understanding against peer threats,
friendly forces must strive to identify or open windows of opportunity across domains.
Staff integration is difficult but crucial; the staff must collaborate to overcome
challenges and mitigate information collection capability and system limitations by
developing an integrated information collection plan. Fighting for intelligence also
encompasses the basics of establishing an effective intelligence architecture,
synchronizing the intelligence warfighting function, and planning and conducting
information collection.

THE CHALLENGE

5-1, Producing intelligence and executing information collection differ significantly based on the Army’s
strategic role. For example, intelligence operations conducted during shaping operations differ drastically
from intelligence operations conducted during large-scale ground combat operations.

5-2, Ofthe Army’s four strategic roles (shape, prevent, conduct large-scale ground combat, and consolidate
gains), the intelligence warfighting function is most challenged to meet the vast number of large-scale ground
combat operation requirements. Large-scale ground combat operations are intense, lethal, and brutal—
creating conditions, such as complexity, chaos, fear, violence, fatigue, and uncertainty. Battlefields will
include noncombatants crowded in and around dense urban areas. To further complicate operations, enemies
will employ conventional and unconventional tactics, terrorism, criminal activities, and information warfare.
Activities in the information environment, which includes cyberspace, will often be inseparable from land
operations. The fluid and chaotic nature of large-scale ground combat operations will cause the greatest
degree of fog, friction, and stress on the intelligence warfighting function.

5-3, When fighting a peer threat during large-scale ground combat operations, units must be prepared to
fight for intelligence against enemy formations, a range of sophisticated threat capabilities, and many
unknown conditions within the operational environment. The challenges to information collection include
integrated air defense systems, long-range fires, counterreconnaissance, cyberspace and EW operations, and
camouflage, concealment, and deception.

5-4. A successful information collection effort is key to achieving and exploiting positions of relative
advantage. The intelligence staff can then analyze collected information and provide products, updates, and
predictive assessments that support targeting, decision making, and the execution of branches and/or sequels.
Staff integration, operational planning, and information collection plans are not foolproof and can become
ineffective. Conceptually, fighting for intelligence is not new, but the Army must emphasize this principle
due to the complexity of large-scale operations. Conducting information collection requires thorough and
creative planning, aggressive execution, and adjustments based on the situation. Key aspects of fighting for
intelligence to support operations include the following:

e Commanders drive intelligence.

e Effective staff integration is crucial.

e Effective intelligence requires a comprehensive intelligence architecture.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 5-1


Chapter 5

A thoroughly developed and flexible information collection plan is critical.
A successful information collection plan begins with identifying the right requirements.

Together, commanders, staffs, and subordinate units strive and constantly adjust to develop and
execute a layered and aggressive information collection plan.

THE COMMANDER’S ROLE AND STAFF INTEGRATION

5-5. Commanders and staffs need timely, accurate, relevant, and predictive intelligence to understand threat
characteristics, goals and objectives, and COAs. Precise intelligence is critical to targeting threat capabilities
at the right time and place to open windows of opportunity across domains. Commanders and staffs must
have detailed knowledge of the threat’s strengths, vulnerabilities, organizations, equipment, capabilities, and
tactics to plan for and execute friendly operations.

5-6. Collaboration within and between the entire staff produces integration essential to effective command
and control and synchronized operations. While all staff sections have clearly defined functional
responsibilities, they cannot work efficiently without complete cooperation and coordination among all
sections and cells. Key staff synchronization and integration occur during—
e IPB.
e Army design methodology, the military decision-making process (MDMP), and the rapid
decision-making and synchronization process.

e Information collection.
e Targeting.
e Assessments.

5-7. The G-2/S-2 supports the commander’s ability to understand the operational environment and visualize
operations by leading the IPB process and portraying the enemy throughout the MDMP, developing the
information collection plan, updating the intelligence running estimate, and developing intelligence products
and reports. The commander’s role is to direct the intelligence warfighting function through this relationship
with the G-2/S-2. Commanders must stay constantly engaged with their G-2 or S-2; close interaction between
them is essential as the intelligence staff supports unit planning and preparation through the integrating
processes.

5-8. Commanders and staffs use the integrating processes (IPB, targeting, risk management, information
collection, and knowledge management) to synchronize specific functions throughout the operations process.
The intelligence staff supports the integrating processes by providing all-source analysis of threats, terrain
and weather, and civil considerations. (See ADP 5-0 for more on the integrating processes.)

INTELLIGENCE AND THE INTEGRATING PROCESSES

5-2

5-9. There is an ever-growing volume of data and information from numerous sources about the operational
environment that can improve the commander’s visualization of the battlefield in time and space. Situational
understanding enables the commander to better—

e@ Make decisions.

e Prioritize and allocate resources.

e Assess and take necessary risks.

e Understand the needs of higher and subordinate commanders.

5-10, The commander and staff depend on a skilled intelligence staff to answer PIRs and other requirements
through the synchronization of the intelligence warfighting function with command and control. The
intelligence staff conducts all-source analysis that facilitates the production of IPB products; supports the
information collection effort, the targeting effort, and risk management; and provides all-source intelligence
analysis (including conclusions and projections of future conditions or events).

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Fighting for Intelligence

PERFORM INTELLIGENCE PREPARATION OF THE BATTLEFIELD

5-11. The G-2/S-2 leads the staff through the IPB process. The IPB process considers all threat capabilities
within and across each domain within the unit’s AO and area of interest and the relevant aspects of the
information environment. The other staff sections assist the intelligence staff in developing the IPB products
required for planning. The IPB process consists of the following four steps: define the operational
environment, describe environmental effects on operations, evaluate the threat, and determine threat COAs.
IPB starts immediately upon receipt of the mission, is refined throughout planning, and is updated to support
subsequent operational planning. (See ATP 2-01.3 for more on IPB.) The following aspects of IPB support
mission analysis:

e Evaluate military aspects of the terrain, weather effects, and civil considerations.
Identify threat capabilities.
Develop threat models.
Develop high-value target lists.

Develop an event template and matrix.

PROVIDE INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO TARGETING

5-12, The intelligence staff is essential to targeting (both lethal and nonlethal actions). Intelligence supports
the planning (target development), preparation, execution, and assessment of direct and indirect fires and
EW. The intelligence staff also ensures the information collection plan supports the finalized targeting plan
(target detection). Table 5-1 lists the most important subtasks, products, and considerations associated with
intelligence support to targeting. (For more on targeting, see ATP 3-60; for more on intelligence support to
targeting, see ADRP 1-03 and ATP 2-01.3.)

Table 5-1. Intelligence support to targeting

e Commander's intent e Lead time between decision points and target

Receive guidance | @ High-payoff targets areas of interest
on— e Attack criteria e Combat assessment requirements

e Rules of engagement

evens e Modified combined obstacle overlay e High-value targets
“ ¢ Situation and event templates e Information collection plan

Threat courses of action, as part of war gaming, based on friendly courses of action:
a e Refine the event template
e Assist in developing the high-payoff target list, target selection standard matrix, and attack guidance matrix

e High-payoff target-related information and intelligence to the fires cell or appropriate location immediately
Disseminate— e Pertinent information and battle damage assessment in accordance with standard operating

procedures or other instructions

PROVIDE INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO RISK MANAGEMENT

5-13. Risk management is the Army’s primary process for identifying and controlling risks during
operations. Risk management is the process to identify, assess, and control risks and make decisions that
balance risk cost with mission benefits (JP 3-0). The chief of protection (or S-3 in units without a protection
cell), in coordination with the safety officer, integrates risk management into the MDMP. The intelligence
staff participates in the overall risk management process and integrates risk management into collection
management when recommending tasks for information collection assets.

5-14, Commanders must focus and use intelligence to explicitly understand the lethality of large-scale
ground combat operations and to preserve their combat power and take the appropriate operational risk to
achieve the end state. Using intelligence to see and understand within each domain can reduce risk to the
friendly force and enhance success in chaotic and high-tempo operations. The distribution of specific

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 5-3


Chapter 5

intelligence collection systems, personnel, and equipment enhances the capability of the combined arms team
to concentrate combat power and reduce risk. Intelligence provides the commander the ability to detect
adversary capabilities and activities, analyze enemy intentions, and track enemy capabilities across all
domains to inform decisions and provide realistic assessments of operational and tactical risk. During
situation development, analysts determine the significance of collected information and its significance
relative to predicted threat COAs. Through predictive analysis, the staff templates threat activity or trends
that present opportunities or risks to the friendly force. This support assists the commander and staff in
deciding when and where to concentrate sufficient combat power to defeat the threat while mitigating risk.

CONDUCT INFORMATION COLLECTION

5-15. Information collection is an activity that synchronizes and integrates the planning and employment of
sensors and assets as well as the processing, exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of
current and future operations (FM 3-55). Information collection is an integrated intelligence and operations
function. The intelligence staff conducts information collection in collaboration with the operations staff to
collect, process, and analyze information the commander requires concerning threats, terrain and weather,
and civil considerations that affect operations. The primary Army information collection missions/means are
reconnaissance, surveillance, security operations, and intelligence operations.

5-16. A successful information collection effort results in the timely collection and reporting of relevant and
accurate information, which either supports the production of intelligence or is disseminated as combat
information. The information collection effort includes organic units and capabilities and support from DOD
intelligence assets, as well as nonintelligence sources, which provide civil considerations and sociocultural
information. (See FM 3-55 and ATP 3-55.4.) The information collection tasks are collection management,
direct information collection, execute collection, and conduct intelligence-related missions and operations.

Collection Management

5-17, Collection management is the task of analyzing requirements, evaluating available assets (internal and
external), recommending taskings to the operations staff for information collection assets, submitting
requests for information for adjacent and higher collection support, and assessing the effectiveness of the
information collection plan. The continuous functions of collection management identify the best way to
satisfy the requirements of the supported commander and staff. These functions are not necessarily
sequential. Collection management inherently requires an understanding of the relative priority of incoming
requests for collection and PED. Additionally, collection management includes the staff vetting requirements
against current intelligence holdings to ensure resources are not wasted collecting information that is already
available. (See ATP 2-01.)

Direct Information Collection

5-18, The operations staff (based on recommendations from the rest of the staff) tasks, directs, and when
necessary, retasks information collection assets. By tasking and directing information collection assets, the
staff ensures the most effective and balanced use of assets across the subordinate units in order to answer all
requirements. The operations staff tasks units and information collection assets by issuing warning orders,
fragmentary orders, and operation orders. Additionally, they continuously monitor the information collection
effort and retask assets as requirements are refined, updated, and added. (See FM 3-55.)

Execute Collection

5-19, Executing collection focuses on specific requirements. This collection is accomplished through the
execution of tactical missions (such as the primary means of information collection: reconnaissance,
surveillance, security operations, and intelligence operations) based on CCIRs and other requirements.
Collection activities acquire data and information about threats and relevant aspects of the AO. They provide
that information to intelligence PED and analysis elements. Typically, collection activities begin soon after
receipt of the mission and continue throughout preparation and execution of operations. They do not cease
after the operation concludes but continue as required. This allows the commander to focus combat power,
execute current operations, and prepare for future operations simultaneously.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Fighting for Intelligence

APPLY KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

5-20. Knowledge management is the process of enabling knowledge flow to enhance shared understanding,
learning, and decision making (ADP 6-0). Knowledge flow refers to the ease of movement of knowledge
within and among organizations. Knowledge management provides the methods and means to efficiently
share knowledge and distribute relevant information where and when it is needed. Knowledge management
is supported by four tasks that bring an organization closer to situational and shared understanding. The four
knowledge management tasks are creating knowledge, organizing knowledge, applying knowledge, and
transferring knowledge. (See ATP 6-01.1 for more information on knowledge management.)

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS AND INFORMATION
REQUIREMENTS

5-21. By supporting the integrating processes, the intelligence warfighting function supports the
commander’s decisions, situational understanding, MDMP, targeting, and force protection considerations.
During all operations, both friendly and enemy forces will endeavor to set conditions to develop a position
of relative advantage.

5-22, Through generating intelligence knowledge, IPB, and situation development, the intelligence staff
enables commanders and staffs to develop a realistic and sufficiently flexible plan to account for enemy
objectives, COAs, and capabilities. The intelligence staff also provides warning intelligence, which indicates
the start of hostilities, a major change or escalation to the nature of the conflict, or the introduction of a
significant new capability.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE WARFIGHTING FUNCTION

5-23, The intelligence warfighting function is designed to systematically answer intelligence requirements.
Commanders focus the effort by clearly articulating intent, stating requirements, prioritizing targets, and
assessing effectiveness as operations progress. However, in order to drive intelligence, commanders and
staffs must have realistic expectations about intelligence capabilities and available assets. The following are
intelligence warfighting function planning considerations:

e Intelligence reduces uncertainty; it does not eliminate it. The commander has to determine the
presence and degree of risk involved in conducting a particular operation. The time available to
plan and prepare is directly related to the risk. Usually, the more time allotted to planning and
preparation, the lower the risk. One of the commander’s considerations is determining the
appropriate balance between the time allotted for collection weighed against the operational
necessity for quickly executing an operation. It takes time to collect information and develop it
into detailed and precise intelligence products.

e The intelligence warfighting function comprises finite resources and capabilities. Intelligence
systems and Soldiers trained in specific skills are limited. Once lost to action or accident, these
systems and Soldiers are not easily replaceable; in some cases, it may not be possible to replace
them during the course of the current operation. The loss of Soldiers and equipment can result in
the inability to detect or analyze threat actions. Additionally, the loss of qualified language-trained
Soldiers, especially those trained in low-density languages or skills, could adversely affect
intelligence operations.

e To provide effective intelligence, the intelligence warfighting function must have adequate
communications and network-enabled capabilities. Commanders and staffs must ensure the
allocation of communications support and resources to intelligence is appropriate.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 5-5


Chapter 5

INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS

5-24. Information requirements differ significantly based on the defensive or offensive operation, the
specific situation, and unique requirements for concurrent supporting operations such as deep operations and
missions in the various consolidation areas. During both friendly defensive and offensive operations, there
are consolidation area requirements to detect enemy bypassed or stay-behind forces, special purpose forces,
irregular forces, terrorists, and efforts to create an insurgency or conduct information warfare. (See FM 3-0
and FM 2-0 for more detailed discussions on the defensive and offensive operations and the specific
intelligence support to each form of the defense and offense.)

Defensive Operations

5-25. During friendly defensive operations, enemy forces employ precision fires, other long-range fires, and
nonlethal capabilities (such as cyber and EW) to attack friendly command and control and key supporting
and sustaining capabilities. Friendly forces aim to prepare defensive positions and set conditions while the
enemy attempts to set the timing of, location of, and conditions for battle. The three basic friendly defensive
operations are area defense, mobile defense, and retrograde.

5-26. Intelligence supports friendly force efforts to protect the force, disperse and reassemble the force as
necessary, and answer requirements on when, where, and in what strength the enemy will attack. This
intelligence supports decisions on setting the defense, employing various capabilities, repositioning forces,
conducting counterattacks, and when possible, transitioning to offensive operations.

5-27. The intelligence staff leads the rest of the staff in identifying when, where, with what strength, and
how the enemy will attack. This allows the commander to identify opportune times to conduct spoiling attacks
and reposition forces. The entire staff also identifies threats to support and consolidation areas, such as enemy
special purpose forces and irregular activities, which may interfere with control of the defense. The
intelligence staff leads the rest of the staff in determining—
e The threat intent, objectives, and associated decision points tied to the decisive and/or key terrain
associated with the operation.
e General trafficability and mobility considerations, ground mobility corridors, avenues of approach,
intervisibility lines within key areas, specific terrain analysis, and weather effects on the operation.
e The likely composition, focus, routes, and a time window for arrival of enemy reconnaissance
formations.
e The likely scheme of maneuver for the attacking enemy force.
Intent, activities, orientation, and predicted locations for: enemy command and control and
communications command posts; enemy artillery formations and air defense systems; enemy
aviation units; threat EW capabilities; enemy engineer support, chemical support, and special
operations forces; and enemy activities in friendly consolidation areas.
e The likely use and intent for threat cyberspace capabilities and likely enemy use of deception.
e The likely location of and time window to commit enemy reserve forces, likely use of second
echelon enemy forces to isolate or encircle friendly forces, and likely times and locations where
the friendly commander can launch a spoiling attack.

Offensive Operations

5-28. During friendly offensive operations, enemy forces attempt to disrupt friendly activities by employing
precision fires, other long-range fires, and nonlethal capabilities (like cyber and EW). Therefore, friendly
forces strive to conduct the necessary movements, prepare logistical support, and set other conditions while
the enemy attempts to prevent friendly forces from effectively synchronizing adequate combat power. The
four basic friendly offensive operations movement to contact, attack, exploitation, and pursuit.

5-29, Intelligence determines when and where the enemy will concentrate combat power, find gaps and
vulnerabilities in enemy defenses, and predict how the enemy will conduct any counterattacks. This
intelligence supports decisions on conducting information collection, executing long-range fires, penetrating
enemy security areas, overcoming obstacles, avoiding enemy strengths, defeating enemy counterattacks, and
when possible, transitioning to exploitation or pursuit.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Fighting for Intelligence

5-30. The intelligence staff leads the rest of the staff in a careful analysis of the terrain, including ground and
air avenues of approach, and other significant factors of the operational environment. Then the staff identifies
a broad range of enemy COAs with emphasis on the enemy’s most likely and most dangerous COAs in the
war-gaming portion of the MDMP. Because of the inherent vulnerability of friendly forces during a
movement to contact, the intelligence staff must not underestimate the enemy and complexities of the
mission. Predictions of enemy COAs should be thorough; at a minimum, they should account for enemy
maneuver units (two echelons below) and all key enemy capabilities and enablers. A thorough IPB and war-
gaming effort indicates areas where contact with the enemy is likely, as well as friendly and enemy
vulnerabilities by phase of the operation. The intelligence staff leads the rest of the staff in determining—
e The threat intent, objectives, and associated decision points tied to decisive and/or key terrain
associated with the operation.
e General trafficability and mobility considerations, ground mobility corridors, avenues of approach,
intervisibility lines within key areas, specific terrain analysis, and weather effects on the operation.
e The intent, activities, orientation, and predicted locations for: obstacles, including areas the enemy
is likely to use fire support coordination measures; enemy reconnaissance, security forces, and
observation posts; enemy aviation units, including forward arming and refueling points; enemy
defensive locations with likely close obstacles and engagement areas within the main defensive
zone; enemy command and control and communications facilities and systems; enemy artillery,
rocket units, and air defense systems; enemy engineer support, chemical support, and special
operations forces; threat EW capabilities; enemy reserve forces, including when they would be
committed; and enemy activities in friendly consolidation areas.
e The likely use and intent for threat cyberspace capabilities and likely enemy use of deception.

e Indications that the enemy is still conducting movement, possibly turning the operation into a
meeting engagement or causing friendly forces to employ a hasty defense.

OTHER KEY TASKS FOR SHAPING LARGE-SCALE GROUND COMBAT OPERATIONS

5-31. There are many important aspects of all offensive and defensive operations, including the tactical
enabling tasks. In combat, seizing the initiative involves conducting reconnaissance, maintaining security,
performing defensive and offensive operations at the earliest possible time, forcing the enemy to culminate
offensively, and setting the conditions for decisive operations. Operations in the deep area involve efforts to
prevent uncommitted or out-of-contact enemy maneuver forces from being committed coherently or
preventing enemy enabling capabilities, such as fires and air defense, from creating effects in the close area.
The purpose of operations in the deep area is to set conditions for success in the close area or to set conditions
for future operations. Therefore, units must execute successful reconnaissance, security operations, and deep
operations before or as part of all offensive and defensive operations:

e Reconnaissance. Reconnaissance is typically conducted to gain more information about a terrain
feature, geographic area, enemy force, or other operational or mission variable that is important
for a commander to formulate, confirm, or modify a COA. Commanders normally assign
reconnaissance objectives, which can be information about a specific geographic location, a
specific enemy activity to be confirmed or denied, or a specific enemy unit to be located and
tracked. Therefore, every reconnaissance is different and there is no general list of information
requirements. (See FM 3-0.)

e Security operations. The main difference between performing security tasks and reconnaissance
tasks is that security tasks orient on the force or facility being protected, while reconnaissance
tasks are enemy- and terrain-oriented. The goal of security tasks is protecting a force from surprise
and reducing the unknowns in any situation. Commanders may perform security tasks to the front,
flanks, or rear of a friendly force. Security tasks are shaping operations. As a shaping operation,
economy of force is often a consideration when planning. Intelligence support for security
operations simply follows the intelligence considerations for the offensive or defensive operation
the main unit is conducting. Security operations encompass five tasks: screen, guard, cover, area
security, and local security. (See FM 3-0.)

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 5-7


Chapter 5

e Deep operations. Deep operations are combined arms operations directed against uncommitted
enemy forces or capabilities before they can engage friendly forces in the close fight. Deep
operations also contribute to setting the conditions to transition to the next phase of an operation
(for example, from a defensive to an offensive operation). Deep operations are not simply
attacking an enemy force in depth. Instead, they are the sum of all activities that influence when,
where, and in what condition enemy forces will be committed. Deep operations are normally
planned and controlled at theater army, corps, and division levels, and typically include
information collection, target acquisition, ground and air maneuver, fires, cyberspace
electromagnetic activities, and information operations either singly or in combination. Intelligence
support to deep operations is an inherent part of intelligence support to targeting. The intelligence
staff leads the rest of the staff in identifying when, where, in what strength, and how the enemy
will begin movement, launch attacks, or defend. (See ATP 3-94.2.)

THE INFORMATION COLLECTION PLAN AND THE
INTELLIGENCE ARCHITECTURE

5-32. After completing the MDMP (to include developing requirements), the commander and staff complete
an information collection plan. Developing the information collection plan involves overlaying the
information requirements on the current situation, operational plan, and the existing intelligence architecture.

DEVELOPING THE INFORMATION COLLECTION PLAN

5-33, Commanders and staffs use the principles of information collection, IPB and other key staff products,
and knowledge of information collection capabilities and limitations to develop the information collection
plan. As commanders and staffs develop the plan, they may encounter information collection gaps due to
factors that include but are not limited to inadequate collection range, unfavorable terrain, or lack of technical
capabilities.

5-34, PIRs and the most important intelligence requirements and targeting requirements form the basis of an
integrated information collection plan. Through analysis, the staff determines the best way to satisfy each
requirement. Based on the MDMP, including a thorough war game, the commander and staff develop a
detailed and realistic information collection plan to answer as many requirements as possible.

5-35, Staff integration and synchronization ensures the enemy situation and the operational environment (not
just a predetermined operational plan) drive the information collection effort. Generally, intelligence units
and collectors are allocated based on priorities and the unit’s main effort. Additionally, a unit may have to
depend on the higher echelon to provide intelligence support during a particular operational phase because
the unit is constantly moving or has a high operating tempo and cannot produce its own intelligence.

5-36. The information collection plan must be simple enough to execute, should avoid being predictable to
enemy forces, and should include adequate operations security measures to protect friendly operations.
Effective information collection planning depends on collaboration across the echelons in order to vertically
and horizontally layer the information collection effort. A layered and continuous information collection
effort provides better opportunities for detecting enemy formations, fires capabilities, and critical specialized
capabilities that pose the greatest threat to friendly forces. (See FM 3-55 and ATP 2-01 for more on
developing an information collection plan.)

ESTABLISHING THE INTELLIGENCE ARCHITECTURE

5-8

5-37. When the commander and staff start planning, many aspects of and limitations to information
collection have already been set based on the specifics of the intelligence architecture and command and
control network. While units can change a few components of the intelligence architecture within a short
timeframe, most components are already set or require a fairly long lead time to change. Therefore, setting
the intelligence architecture is an important aspect of the shape and deter roles.

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Fighting for Intelligence

5-38. The intelligence architecture is developed well before deployment based on future planning and
assumptions on the employment of intelligence capabilities. Periodically, units will revise the intelligence
architecture based on new planning factors and assumptions, as well as the addition of new capabilities.
Before deployment, units task-organize information collection capabilities based on the intelligence
architecture and other factors such as the command post structure and other key nodes. Following initial
deployment, the intelligence architecture will already be largely established and each unit will develop an
information collection plan within the context of the architecture.

5-39, The command and staff must understand the relationship of national to tactical intelligence; theater-
specific procedures, networks, and systems; the strengths and vulnerabilities of organic and supporting
intelligence units, personnel, and systems; and the overarching operation plan in order to establish the
intelligence architecture.

DEVELOPING THE SITUATION AND CONTINUOUS INFORMATION
COLLECTION

5-40. The fight for intelligence becomes more difficult as units receive long-range fires and make contact
with enemy forces. Information collection and intelligence analysis are integral to developing the situation.
Additionally, the corps and division intelligence staffs may attend or watch theater-level collection
management boards, giving them insight into national and joint priorities and coverage. This insight,
coordination, and preparation create opportunities for tactical units to leverage national and joint capabilities.
The theater army, corps, and division G-2s convene an operations and intelligence working group, or some
form of synchronization meeting, with key staff and subordinate units. These intelligence synchronization
meetings (normally conducted via video teleconferencing) create a common understanding of the enemy,
ensure information collection plans address changes in the situation, and coordinate continuous information
collection across echelons and units.

5-41, The intelligence staff conducts synchronizing activities to assist the unit in developing the situation
and adjusting information collection. Information collection requires airspace, terrain, and space
deconfliction and coordination as well as adequate PED capabilities to ensure assets are able to operate
efficiently and effectively. The staff considers whether the unit has the intelligence collection and PED
capabilities, capacity, and architecture required to support planned and projected operations. There are many
requirements for the G-2/S-2 and the intelligence staff to participate in unit battle rhythm activities to
synchronize intelligence support and the information collection effort. The intelligence staff provides updates
on the situation and briefs changes to the information collection plan during various commander updates,
boards, cell meetings, and other meetings. This creates a common understanding of the enemy, ensures
information collection plans address changes in the situation, and coordinates continuous information
collection across echelons and units.

5-42, Information collection is continuous through the execution of operations and transition to consolidate
gains. The all-source analytical effort is key to informing the commander and staff, who in turn support the
continued fight for intelligence. Therefore, G-2/S-2s, all-source analysts, and collection managers must
collaborate closely. Intelligence analysis assists in discovering collection gaps, generating more information
requirements, and driving all operations. Additionally, analysis assists in determining the effectiveness of the
information collection effort. That assessment leads to adjustments in the information collection plan, making
it more efficient and effective. Thorough planning allows continuous collection planning through all phases,
branches, and sequels of an operation.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 5-9


This page intentionally left blank.


Glossary

The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. Where Army and
joint definitions differ, (Army) precedes the definition. The glossary lists terms for
which ADP 2-0 is the proponent with an asterisk (*) before the term. For other terms,
it lists the proponent publication in parentheses after the definition.

SECTION | - ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ADP Army doctrine publication
ADRP Army doctrine reference publication
AO area of operations
AR Army regulation
ASCC Army Service component command
ASCOPE areas, structures, capabilities, organizations, people, and events (civil
considerations)
ATP Army techniques publication
AUTL Army Universal Task List
BCT brigade combat team
BEWL biometric-enabled watchlist
CBRN chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
CCIR commander’s critical information requirement
CI counterintelligence
CJCSI Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction
COA course of action
DOD Department of Defense
DODD Department of Defensive directive
DODI Department of Defense instruction
DODM Department of Defensive manual
DOMEX document and media exploitation
DSCA defense support of civil authorities
ELINT electronic intelligence
E-MIB expeditionary-military intelligence brigade
EMS electromagnetic spectrum
EO executive order
EW electronic warfare
FM field manual
G-2 assistant chief of staff, intelligence
G-3 assistant chief of staff, operations
G-6 assistant chief of staff, signal

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 Glossary-1


Glossary

GCC
GEOINT
HUMINT
INSCOM
IPB

JP
MASINT
MDMP
METT-TC

MI

MIB-T
NGIC
OSINT
PED

PIR
PMESII-PT

S-2

S-3

S-6

S&TI
SIGINT
TECHINT
US.

USC

WTI

geographic combatant command

geospatial intelligence

human intelligence

United States Army Intelligence and Security Command
intelligence preparation of the battlefield

joint publication

measurement and signature intelligence

military decision-making process

mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time
available, and civil considerations (mission variables)

military intelligence

military intelligence brigade-theater
National Ground Intelligence Center
open-source intelligence

processing, exploitation, and dissemination
priority intelligence requirement

political, military, economic, social, information, infrastructure, physical
environment, and time (operational variables)

battalion or brigade intelligence staff officer
battalion or brigade operations staff officer
battalion or brigade signal staff officer
scientific and technical intelligence

signals intelligence

technical intelligence

United States

United States Code

weapons technical intelligence

SECTION Il — TERMS

*all-source intelligence

(Army) The integration of intelligence and information from all relevant sources in order to analyze
situations or conditions that impact operations.

(joint) Intelligence products and/or organizations and activities that incorporate all sources of
information in the production of finished intelligence. (JP 2-0)

adversary

A party acknowledged as potentially hostile to a friendly party and against which the use of force may

be envisaged. (JP 3-0)

biometrics

(joint) The process of recognizing an individual based on measurable anatomical, physiological, and
behavioral characteristics. (JP 2-0)

biometrics-enabled intelligence

(Army) Intelligence resulting from the combination of biometric information with other intelligence,
threat information, or information relating to other aspects of the operational environment in order to
answer intelligence requirements. (ATP 2-22.82)

Glossary-2

ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Glossary

collection
In intelligence usage, the acquisition of information and the provision of this information to processing
elements. (JP 2-01)

combat information
Unevaluated data, gathered by or provided directly to the tactical commander which, due to its highly
perishable nature or the criticality of the situation, cannot be processed into tactical intelligence in time
to satisfy the user's tactical intelligence requirements. (JP 2-01)

combined arms
The synchronized and simultaneous application of arms to achieve an effect greater than if each
element was used separately or sequentially. (ADP 3-0)

communications intelligence
Technical information and intelligence derived from foreign communications by other than the
intended recipients. (JP 2-0)

decisive action
The continuous, simultaneous execution of offensive, defensive, and stability operations or defense
support of civil authorities tasks. (ADP 3-0)

defense support of civil authorities
Support provided by United States Federal military forces, Department of Defense civilians,
Department of Defense contract personnel, Department of Defense component assets, and National
Guard forces (when the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the governors of the affected states,
elects and requests to use those forces in Title 32, United States Code, status) in response to requests
for assistance from civil authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement support, and other
domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special events. (DODD 3025.18)

defensive operation
An operation to defeat an enemy attack, gain time, economize forces, and develop conditions favorable
for offensive or stability operations. (ADP 3-0)

document and media exploitation
The processing, translation, analysis, and dissemination of collected hardcopy documents and
electronic media that are under the U.S. Government’s physical control and are not publicly available.
(ATP 2-91.8)

electronic intelligence
Technical and geolocation intelligence derived from foreign noncommunications electromagnetic
radiations emanating from other than nuclear detonations or radioactive sources. (JP 3-13.1)

foreign instrumentation signals intelligence
A subcategory of signals intelligence consisting of technical information and intelligence derived from
the intercept of foreign electromagnetic emissions associated with the testing and operational
deployment of non-United States aerospace, surface, and subsurface systems. (JP 2-01)

foreign intelligence entity
Any known or suspected foreign organization, person, or group (public, private, or governmental) that
conducts intelligence activities to acquire United States information, block or impair United States
intelligence collection, influence United States policy, or disrupt United States systems and programs.
The term includes foreign intelligence and security services and international terrorists. (JP 2-01.2)

forensic-enabled intelligence

The intelligence resulting from the integration of scientifically examined materials and other
information to establish full characterization, attribution, and the linkage of events, locations, items,
signatures, nefarious intent, and persons of interest. (JP 2-0)

*fusion
(Army) Consolidating, combining, and correlating information together.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 Glossary-3


Glossary

geospatial information

Information that identifies the geographic location and characteristics of natural or constructed features
and boundaries on the Earth, including: statistical data and information derived from, among other
things, remote sensing, mapping, and surveying technologies; and mapping, charting, geodetic data
and related products. (JP 2-03).

geospatial intelligence

The exploitation and analysis of imagery and geospatial information to describe, assess, and visually
depict physical features and geographically referenced activities on the Earth. Geospatial intelligence
consists of imagery, imagery intelligence, and geospatial information. (JP 2-03)

hazard
A condition with the potential to cause injury, illness, or death of personnel; damage to or loss of
equipment or property; or mission degradation. (JP 3-33)

*human intelligence

(Army) The collection by a trained human intelligence collector of foreign information from people
and multimedia to identify elements, intentions, composition, strength, dispositions, tactics, equipment,
and capabilities.

imagery
A likeness or presentation of any natural or man-made feature or related object or activity, and the
positional data acquired at the same time the likeness or representation was acquired, including:
products produced by space-based national intelligence reconnaissance systems; and likenesses and
presentations produced by satellites, aircraft platforms, unmanned aircraft systems, or other similar
means (except that such term does not include handheld or clandestine photography taken by or on
behalf of human intelligence collection organizations). (JP 2-03)

imagery intelligence
The technical, geographic, and intelligence information derived through the interpretation or analysis
of imagery and collateral materials. (JP 2-03)

information collection
An activity that synchronizes and integrates the planning and employment of sensors and assets as well
as the processing, exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of current and future
operations. (FM 3-55)

intelligence
(1) The product resulting from the collection, processing, integration, evaluation, analysis, and
interpretation of available information concerning foreign nations, hostile or potentially hostile forces
or elements, or areas of actual or potential operations. (2) The activities that result in the product. (3)
The organizations engaged in such activities. (JP 2-0)

*intelligence analysis
The process by which collected information is evaluated and integrated with existing information to
facilitate intelligence production.

intelligence community
All departments or agencies of a government that are concerned with intelligence activity, either in an
oversight, managerial, support, or participatory role. (JP 2 0)

*intelligence operations
(Army) The tasks undertaken by military intelligence units through the intelligence disciplines to
obtain information to satisfy validated requirements.

*intelligence reach

The activity by which intelligence organizations proactively and rapidly access information from,
receive support from, and conduct direct collaboration and information sharing with other units and
agencies, both within and outside the area of operations, unconstrained by geographic proximity,
echelon, or command.

Glossary-4 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


Glossary

intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
An integrated operations and intelligence activity that synchronizes and integrates the planning and
operation of sensors, assets, and processing, exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support
of current and future operations. (JP 2-01)

*intelligence synchronization
The art of integrating information collection; intelligence processing, exploitation, and dissemination;
and intelligence analysis with operations to effectively and efficiently fight for intelligence in support
of decision making.

intelligence warfighting function
The related tasks and systems that facilitate understanding the enemy, terrain, weather, civil
considerations, and other significant aspects of the operational environment. (ADP 3-0)

joint operations
Military actions conducted by joint forces and those Service forces employed in specific command
relationships with each other, which of themselves, do not establish joint forces. (JP 3-0)

knowledge management
The process of enabling knowledge flow to enhance shared understanding, learning, and decision
making. (ADP 6-0)

large-scale combat operations
(Army) Extensive joint combat operations in terms of scope and size of forces committed, conducted
as a campaign aimed at achieving operational and strategic objectives. (ADP 3-0)

large-scale ground combat operations
Sustained combat operations involving multiple corps and divisions. (ADP 3-0)

measurement and signature intelligence
Information produced by quantitative and qualitative analysis of physical attributes of targets and
events to characterize, locate, and identify targets and events, and derived from specialized, technically
derived measurements of physical phenomenon intrinsic to an object or event. (JP 2-0)

offensive operation
An operation to defeat and destroy enemy forces and gain control of terrain, resources, and population
centers. (ADP 3-0)

open-source information
(joint) Information that any member of the public could lawfully obtain by request or observation as
well as other unclassified information that has limited public distribution or access. (JP 2-0)

open-source intelligence
(DOD) Intelligence that is produced from publicly available information and is collected, exploited,
and disseminated in a timely manner to an appropriate audience for the purpose of addressing a
specific intelligence requirement. (Public Law 109-163)

operation
A sequence of tactical actions with a common purpose of unifying theme. (JP 1)

operational environment
A composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of
capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander. (JP 3-0)

*processing, exploitation, and dissemination

The execution of the related functions that converts and refines collected data into usable information,
distributes the information for further analysis, and, when appropriate, provides combat information to
commanders and staffs.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 Glossary-5


Glossary

publicly available information
(DOD) Information that has been published or broadcast for public consumption, is available on
request to the public, is accessible online or otherwise to the public, is available to the public by
subscription or purchase, could be seen or heard by any casual observer, is made available at a meeting
open to the public, or is obtained by visiting any place or attending any event that is open to the public.
Publicly available information includes information generally available to persons in a military
community even though the military community is not open to the civilian general public.
(DODM 5240.01)

regionally aligned forces
Those forces that provide a combatant commander at up to joint task force capable headquarters with
scalable, tailorable capabilities to enable the combatant commander to shape the environment. They are
those Army units assigned to combatant commands, those Army units allocated to a combatant
command, and those Army capabilities distributed and prepared by the Army for combatant command
regional missions. (FM 3-22)

risk management
The process to identify, assess, and control risks and make decisions that balance risk cost with
mission benefits. (JP 3-0)

signals intelligence
Intelligence derived from communications, electronic, and foreign instrumentation signals. (JP 2-0)

stability operation
An operation conducted outside the United States in coordination with other instruments of national
power to establish or maintain a secure environment, provide essential governmental services,
emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief. (ADP 3-0)

technical intelligence
Intelligence derived from the collection, processing, analysis, and exploitation of data and information
pertaining to foreign equipment and materiel for the purposes of preventing technological surprise,
assessing foreign scientific and technical capabilities, and developing countermeasures designed to
neutralize an adversary’s technological advantages. (JP 2-0)

threat
Any combination of actors, entities, or forces that have the capability and intent to harm United States
forces, United States national interests, or the homeland. (ADP 3-0)

unified action
The synchronization, coordination, and/or integration of the activities of governmental and
nongovernmental entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort. (JP 1)

unified action partners
Those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private
sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of
operations. (ADP 3-0)

unified land operations
The simultaneous execution of offense, defense, stability, and defense support of civil authorities
across multiple domains to shape operational environments, prevent conflict, prevail in large-scale
ground combat, and consolidate gains as part of unified action. (ADP 3-0)

weapons technical intelligence

A subcategory of technical intelligence derived from the technical and forensic collection and
exploitation of improvised explosive devices, associated components, improvised weapons, and other
systems. (JP 3-15.1)

Glossary-6 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


References

All URLs accessed on 14 June 2019.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. June 2019.
ADP 1-02. Terms and Military Symbols. 14 August 2018.
ADP 3-0. Operations. 31 July 2019.
ADP 5-0. The Operations Process. 31 July 2019.
ADP 6-0. Mission Command: Command and Control of Army Forces. 31 July 2019.
FM 2-0. Intelligence Operations. 6 July 2018.
FM 3-0. Operations. 6 October 2017.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS

These documents contain relevant supplemental information.

JOINT AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PUBLICATIONS

Most joint publications are available online: http://www.jcs.mil/doctrine/.

Most DOD publications are available at the DOD Issuances website:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.

CJCSI 3121.01B. (U) Standing Rules of Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for U.S.
Forces (S). 18 June 2008.

DOD Law of War Manual. December 2016. Available online:
https://dod.defense.gov/Portals/1/Documents/pubs/DoD%20Law%200f%20W ar%20Manual
%20-%20June%202015%20Updated%20Dec%202016.pdf? ver=2016-12-13-172036-190.

DOD 5240.1-R. Procedures Governing the Activities of DOD Intelligence Components That Affect
United States Persons. 7 December 1982.

DODD 2310.01E. DOD Detainee Program. 19 August 2014.
DODD 3025.18. Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). 29 December 2010.

DODD 3115.09. DOD Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical Questioning.
11 October 2012.

DODI 5240.26. Countering Espionage, International Terrorism, and the Counterintelligence (CI)
Insider Threat. 4 May 2012.

DODM 5240.01. Procedures Governing the Conduct of DOD Intelligence Activities. 8 August 2016.
JP 1. Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States. 25 March 2013.

JP 2-0. Joint Intelligence. 22 October 2013.

JP 2-01. Joint and National Intelligence Support to Military Operations. 5 July 2017.

JP 2-01.2. (U) Counterintelligence and Human Intelligence in Joint Operations (S). 6 April 2016. This
publication is classified. Access information is available online:
https://jdeis.js.mil/jdeis/index.jsp?pindex=2.

JP 2-03. Geospatial Intelligence in Joint Operations. 5 July 2017.
JP 3-0. Joint Operations. 17 January 2017.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 References-1


References

JP 3-13.1. Electronic Warfare. 8 February 2012.

JP 3-15.1. Counter-Improvised Explosive Device Operations. 17 July 2018.
JP 3-28. Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 29 October 2018.

JP 3-33. Joint Task Force Headquarters. 31 January 2018.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS

Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil/.

ADP 3-07. Stability. 31 August 2012.

ADP 3-28. Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 11 February 2019.

ADP 3-90. Offense and Defense. 13 August 2018.

ADRP 1-03. The Army Universal Task List. 2 October 2015.

AR 115-11. Geospatial Information and Services. 28 August 2014.

AR 381-10. U.S. Army Intelligence Activities. 3 May 2007.

AR 381-20. (U) Army Counterintelligence Program (S). 25 May 2010.

AR 381-100. (U) Army Human Intelligence Collection Programs (S). 22 February 2016.

AR 530-1. Operations Security. 26 September 2014.

ATP 2-01. Plan Requirements and Assess Collection. 19 August 2014.

ATP 2-01.3. Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield. | March 2019.

ATP 2-22.2-1. Counterintelligence Volume I: Investigations, Analysis and Production, and Technical
Services and Support Activities (U). 11 December 2015.

ATP 2-22.4. Technical Intelligence. 4 November 2013.

ATP 2-22.7. Geospatial Intelligence. 26 March 2015.

ATP 2-22.8. (U) Measurement and Signature Intelligence (S//NF). 30 May 2014.

ATP 2-22.9. Open-Source Intelligence (U). 30 June 2017.

ATP 2-22.31. (U) Human Intelligence Military Source Operations Techniques (S//NF). 17 April 2015.

ATP 2-22.82. Biometrics-Enabled Intelligence (U). 2 November 2015.

ATP 2-33.4. Intelligence Analysis. 18 August 2014.

ATP 2-91.7. Intelligence Support to Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 29 June 2015.

ATP 2-91.8. Techniques for Document and Media Exploitation. 5 May 2015.

ATP 3-34.80. Geospatial Engineering. 22 February 2017.

ATP 3-55.4. Techniques for Information Collection During Operations Among Populations.
5 April 2016.

ATP 3-60. Targeting. 7 May 2015.

ATP 3-94.2. Deep Operations. 1 September 2016.

ATP 6-01.1. Techniques for Effective Knowledge Management. 6 March 2015.

ATP 6-02.71. Techniques for Department of Defense Information Network Operations. 30 April 2019.

FM 2-22.3. Human Intelligence Collector Operations. 6 September 2006.

FM 3-12. Cyberspace and Electronic Warfare Operations. 11 April 2017.

FM 3-22. Army Support to Security Cooperation. 22 January 2013.

FM 3-55. Information Collection. 3 May 2013.

FM 27-10. The Law of Land and Warfare. 18 July 1956.

U.S. Army Directive 2016-37. U.S. Army Open-Source Intelligence Activities. 22 November 2016.

References-2 ADP 2-0 31 July 2019


References

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

EO 12333. United States Intelligence Activities. 4 December 1981. Amended by EO 13284 (2003) and
13470 (2008). Available online: http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/executive-
orders/disposition.html.

EO 13491. Ensuring Lawful Interrogations. 22 January 2009. Available online:
http://www.archives. gov/federal-register/executive-orders/disposition.html.

Public Law 109-163. National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006. 6 January 2006.
Available online: https://(www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLA W-109publ163/content-detail.html.

Title 10, USC. Armed Forces. Available online: http://uscode.house.gov/.
Title 32, USC. National Guard. Available online: http://uscode.house.gov/.
Title 50, USC. War and National Defense. Available online: http://uscode.house.gov/.

SOURCES USED

Paul, Richard and Linda Elder. The Miniature Guide to Critical Thinking: Concepts and Tools. 2014.
Dillon Beach, CA: Foundation for Critical Thinking. 2017. Available online:
http://www. criticalthinking.org/.

Elder, Linda and Richard Paul. The Thinker’s Guide to Analytic Thinking. 2017. Dillon Beach, CA:
Foundation for Critical Thinking. 2017. Available online: http://www.criticalthinking.org/.

PRESCRIBED FORMS

This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS

Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website:
https://armypubs.army.mil/.

DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 References-3


This page intentionally left blank.


Index

Entries are by paragraph number unless indicated otherwise.

A
adversary. See threat, defined.
all-source intelligence, 4-1
analysis, 4-2-4-4
identity activities, 4-7, 4-8
production, 4-5, 4-6
Army design methodology, 3-13
Army’s strategic roles, 1-26, 1-27

Army Universal Task List (AUTL)
tasks, 2-9-2-12

B

biometrics-enabled intelligence,
4-60
biometric analysis, 4-61, 4-62
biometric reports, 4-63

Cc
civil considerations, 1-10, 2-7,
2-28, 3-22, 4-3, 5-11
collaboration, 2-30
collection, 3-22. See also
information collection.

collection management. See
information collection.

combat information, defined, 3-27

command and support
relationships, 2-19, 4-10

commander
role, 5-5—5-8

commander's critical information
requirement. See requirements.

commander's guidance, 3-8

communications intelligence, 4-48,
4-49
complementary intelligence
capabilities, 4-59
biometrics-enabled
intelligence, 4-60—4-63
cyber-enabled intelligence,
4-64—4-66
document and media
exploitation, 4-67—4-72
forensic-enabled intelligence,
4-73-4-75

31 July 2019

counterintelligence (Cl). See
intelligence disciplines.

critical thinking, 2-30

cyber-enabled intelligence. See

complementary intelligence
capabilities.

D
decisive action, 1-31—1-33
defense support of civil
authorities, 1-41—1-45
defensive operations, 1-37,
1-38
offensive operations, 1-34—
1-36
stability operations, 1-39, 1-40
stability tasks, 1-39, 1-40
deep operations, 5-31
defense support of civil authorities
(DSCA), 1-41—1-45
defensive operations, 1-37, 1-38,
5-25-5-27
disseminate, 3-33—3-36 channels,
3-40
methods and techniques,
3-37-3-39
presentation techniques and
procedures, 3-41, 3-42
document and media exploitation.
See complementary intelligence
capabilities.
domains (air, land, maritime,
space, and cyberspace), 1-11

E

echelons, Army, 2-47—2-50

electronic intelligence (ELINT),
4-48, 4-50

enemy. See threat, defined.

expeditionary-military intelligence
brigade. See echelons, Army.

expeditionary PED. See PED.

F

fighting for intelligence
the challenge, 5-1—5-4

ADP 2-0

foreign instrumentation signals
intelligence, 4-48, 4-51

foreign intelligence entity, 4-16—
4-19

forensic-enabled intelligence. See
complementary intelligence
capabilities.

fusion, defined, 4-5

G
G-2/S-2, 3-7
generating intelligence knowledge,
1-10, 2-9, 4-2, 5-22
geospatial information, 4-24
geospatial intelligence (GEOINT).
See intelligence disciplines.
H
hazard, 1-14, 4-75
human intelligence (HUMINT).
See intelligence disciplines.
I

identity activities. See all-source
intelligence.
imagery, 4-22
imagery intelligence, 4-23
information collection, 2-9, 5-8,
5-10
collection management, 5-17
continuous information
collection, 5-40—5-42
defined, 5-15
direct information collection,
5-18
execute collection, 5-19
primary means of, 3-22
information collection plan
developing, 5-32—5-36
information environment, 1-4, 1-6,
1-11, 5-11
information operations, 2-9, 4-2
information requirement, 5-21,
5-24. See also requirements.

INSCOM, 2-36-—2-38

Index-1


Index

Entries are by paragraph number unless indicated otherwise.

integrating processes, 5-9, 5-10
information collection, 5-15—
5-19
IPB, 5-11
knowledge management, 5-20
risk management, 5-13, 5-14
targeting, 5-12
intelligence
across the echelons, 2-47—
2-50
national and joint, 2-35—2-46
purpose of, 2-1—2-6
intelligence analysis, 2-14, 2-28—
2-30
intelligence architecture, 4-78
establishing, 2-42—2-46, 5-37-
5-39
intelligence community, 2-34,
2-36, 2-37
intelligence core competencies,
2-14, 2-15
intelligence analysis, 2-28—
2-30
intelligence operations, 2-18—
2-22
intelligence PED, 2-23—2-27
intelligence synchronization,
2-16, 2-17
intelligence disciplines, 4-14, 4-15
counterintelligence, 4-16—4-20
geospatial intelligence, 4-21—
4-27
human intelligence, 4-28—4-35
measurement and signature
intelligence, 4-36—4-42
open-source intelligence,
4-43—4-47
signals intelligence, 4-48—4-52
technical intelligence, 4-53—
4-58
intelligence operations, 2-14,
2-18—2-22
as a primary means for
information collection, 3-22
interrelated categories of, 3-2
intelligence PED, 2-14, 2-23-2-27
capabilities, 4-76-4-78, 3-28
intelligence preparation of the
battlefield. See IPB.
intelligence process, 3-4—3-7
joint intelligence process, 3-2
intelligence process continuing
activities, 3-43
analyze, 3-44—3-46
assess, 3-47-3-49

Index-2

intelligence process steps, 3-9,
3-10
collect and process, 3-20-3-28
disseminate, 3-33—3-36
plan and direct, 3-11—3-16
produce, 3-29-3-32

intelligence products, 3-7

intelligence reach, 3-19

intelligence synchronization, 2-14,
2-16, 2-17

intelligence warfighting function,
2-7, 2-8, 5-21—5-23

intelligence warfighting function
tasks, 2-9—2-13

intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance, 1-25

IPB, 4-2, 5-22. See also
integrating processes.

J
joint operations, 1-21—1-25

L

large-scale combat operations,
1-1-1-3, 1-22, 1-23, 2-46

large-scale ground combat
operations, 1-3, 1-4, 1-15, 1-28,
1-29, 5-1-5-3, 5-14, 5-31

measurement and signature
intelligence (MASINT). See
intelligence disciplines.

military decision-making process,
3-13

military intelligence brigade-
theater. See echelons, Army.

mission variables, 1-7—1-10

multi-domain extended battlefield.
See operational environment.

multi-domain operations, 1-46—
1-49

N

national to tactical intelligence,

2-31-2-34

intelligence architecture,
establishing, 2-42—2-46

intelligence across the
echelons, 2-47—2-50

national and joint intelligence,
2-35-38

regionally aligned forces, 2-39—
2-41

setting the theater, 2-39—2-41

ADP 2-0

O
offensive operations, 1-34—1-36,
5-28-5-30
open-source information, 4-45

open-source intelligence (OSINT).
See intelligence disciplines.

operational environment, 1-5, 1-6
mission variables, 1-7—1-10
multi-domain extended

battlefield, 1-11, 1-12
operational variables, 1-6
trends, 1-13

operational framework, 1-48

operational variables, 1-7,1-10,
2-7

operations process, 3-4

P

PED
defined, 2-25
expeditionary PED, 4-77
reach PED, 3-19, 4-77

peer threat. See threat.

position of relative advantage,
1-15, 1-47, 2-47, 5-4, 5-21

priority intelligence requirement.
See requirements.

processing, exploitation, and
dissemination. See PED.

publicly available information, 4-45

R
reach PED. See PED.
reconnaissance, 5-31

regionally aligned forces. See
national to tactical intelligence.

requirements, 3-17, 3-18
risk management. See integrating
processes.

Ss

scientific and technical
intelligence, 4-42
security operations, 5-31
setting the theater. See national to
tactical intelligence.
signals intelligence (SIGINT). See
intelligence disciplines.
single-source intelligence, 4-9,
4-10
complementary intelligence
capabilities, 4-59
intelligence disciplines, 4-14,
4-15
situational understanding, 2-9

31 July 2019


Index

Entries are by paragraph number unless indicated otherwise.

situation development, 4-2, 5-22 terrain, 1-8, 2-7, 2-28, 3-22, 4-3, decisive action, 1-31—1-45
stability operations, 1-39, 1-40 5-11 multi-domain operations, 1-46—
stability tasks, 1-39, 1-40 anni 1-49

. . efined, 1- WwW
staff integration, 5-5-5-8 peer threat, 1-15-1-17 Dae

T weapons technical intelligence,

U 4-56, 4-57
targeting, 2-9, 4-2, 4-78, 5-12 U.S. Intelligence and Security weather, 1-9, 2-7, 2-28, 3-22, 4-3,
technical channels, 4-11-4-13, Command. See INSCOM. 5-11

4-78

technical intelligence (TECHINT).
See intelligence disciplines.

unified action partner, 1-20
unified action, 1-20—1-24
unified land operations, 1-28—1-30

31 July 2019 ADP 2-0 Index-3


This page intentionally left blank.


ADP 2-0
31 July 2019

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

MARK A. MILLEY
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

‘KATHLEEN S. MILLER
Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army
1919006

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve: To be distributed in
accordance with the initial distrubution number (IDN) 111117, requirements for ADP 2-0.


