ADP 3-0
OPERATIONS

MARCH 2025
DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION:
Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
This publication supersedes ADP 3-0, dated 31 July 2019.

HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

Introduction
ADP 3-0 describes how the Army, in multidomain operations, contributes to the joint operational concept of
unified action to synchronize, coordinate, and integrate military activities designed to overcome the
challenges posed by peer threats, such as Russia and China. These peer threats employ capabilities and
formations unlikely to be defeated by single, decisive attacks focused on a specific domain. Army forces
need an approach to victory based on the ability to build advantages over time, attacking multiple decisive
points, across five domains—land, maritime, air, space, and cyberspace—and in all three dimensions:
physical, information, and human.
The strategic environment and U.S. policy drove the development of multidomain operations. The Army
focuses its readiness on China and Russia because they pose the greatest threats to U.S. vital interests. They,
and to a lesser extent North Korea and Iran, possess capabilities to contest U.S. Army and joint forces in
every domain. Their focus on stand-off capabilities presents challenges and opportunities that require Army
forces to employ a multidomain approach as part of a larger joint and multinational team. Multidomain
operations demand a shift in mindset that includes thinking beyond how the joint force enables operations on
land—Army forces must be able to enable operations in other domains for the overall joint force to win.
Multidomain operations expand combined arms beyond the traditional one- and two-domain approaches to
the full depth of an enemy’s capabilities and formations. Multidomain operations fracture the coherence of
enemy capabilities and formations by disintegrating their interdependent systems and formations and by
exploiting opportunities these disruptions provide to defeat enemy forces in detail.
ADP 3-0 modifies key topics and updates terminology and concepts as necessary. These topics include the
discussion of an operational environment, operational and mission variables, and operational framework, as
well as discussions of unified action and combat power. ADP 3-0 maintains combined arms as the application
of arms that multiplies Army forces’ effectiveness in all operations. However, it expands combined arms to
include joint and multinational capabilities as integral to combined arms and discusses how the Army
conducts these operations across multiple domains. (For more detailed information on specific tactics and
procedures, see FM 3-0.)
ADP 3-0 contains four chapters:
Chapter 1 defines military operations, in context, for the Army. It describes the Army’s view of war and
warfare and provides two general methods for conducting warfare: conventional warfare and irregular
warfare. The chapter describes the current strategic environment facing the Army and introduces the Army’s
strategic contexts. It provides an explanation of unified action and how the Army supports joint operations
through execution of the Army’s four strategic roles. Finally, it discusses the importance of training to gain
skill in land warfare.
Chapter 2 is a discussion of the warfighting functions and combat power. It defines the warfighting functions
and describes how the application of the warfighting functions in complementary and reinforcing ways
generates combat power. It defines combat power and identifies the dynamics of combat power: leadership,
firepower, information, mobility, and survivability. The chapter concludes with a discussion on
considerations for organizing combat power through force tailoring, task organization, mutual support, and
reconstitution.
Chapter 3 addresses the Army’s operational concept of multidomain operations. It identifies the key
challenges facing the Army today, and it describes how commanders will likely apply landpower as part of
multidomain operations to defeat enemy forces on land and establish conditions that accomplish the joint
force commander’s objectives. The chapter defines the tenets and imperatives of multidomain operations.
The chapter ends with a discussion on the strategic and operational frameworks and their application to the
conduct of operations.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

v

Introduction

Chapter 4 provides the Army’s support to joint campaigning. It defines and describes operational art and the
elements of operational art. This chapter addresses the application of operational art. It details how
commanders should consider defeat and stability mechanisms when developing an operational approach. It
also discusses the operations structure commanders use to array forces and conduct operations.
See introductory figure for ADP 3-0 logic chart.
Certain terms for which ADP 3-0 is the proponent have been added, rescinded, or modified. The glossary
contains acronyms and defined terms. (See introductory table beginning on page viii for a listing of new,
modified, and rescinded Army terms.)

vi

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Introduction

Introductory figure. Logic chart

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

vii

Introduction

Introductory table. New, modified, and rescinded Army terms

viii

Term

Reasoning

agility

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

close operations

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

combat power

ADP 3-0 adopts joint definition.

command and control warfighting function

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

consolidate gains

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

consolidation area

ADP 3-0 rescinds term.

conventional warfare

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

convergence

ADP 3-0 modifies and takes proponency from FM 3-0.

cyberspace electromagnetic activities

ADP 3-0 moves proponency to FM 3-12.

decisive action

ADP 3-0 rescinds term.

decisive operation

No longer a defined term

deep operations

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

defensive operation

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

disintegrate

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

dislocate

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

endurance

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

fires warfighting function

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

flexibility

No longer a defined term.

human advantage

New term and definition.

hybrid threat

ADP 3-0 moves proponency to TC 7-100.

irregular warfare

ADP 3-0 modifies and takes proponency from FM 3-0.

large-scale ground combat operations

No longer a defined term.

line of effort

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

maneuver

ADP 3-0 moves proponency to ADP 3-90.

movement and maneuver warfighting function

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

multidomain operations

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

national strategic level of warfare

ADP 3-0 modifies and takes proponency from FM 3-0.

operational framework

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from ADP 1-01.

physical advantage

New term and definition.

position of relative advantage

No longer a defined term.

protection warfighting function

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

rear operations

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

relative advantage

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

sector

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

setting the theater

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

shaping operation

No longer a defined term

simultaneity

No longer a defined term.

stability operation

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

support area operations

ADP 3-0 modifies and takes proponency from FM 3-0.

supporting distance

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

sustaining operation

No longer a defined term.

sustainment warfighting function

ADP 3-0 modifies definition.

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Introduction

Introductory table. New, modified, and rescinded Army terms (continued)
Term

Reasoning

theater strategic level of warfare

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

unified land operations

No longer a defined term.

zone

ADP 3-0 takes proponency from FM 3-0.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

ix

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 1

Foundations
This chapter starts with a discussion on war. It then covers Army strategic roles, the
strategic environment, and operational environments. It also describes how Army
forces support joint campaigns and unified action. The chapter concludes with
discussions of readiness and theory of victory.

OPERATIONS AND WAR
1-1. The Army’s primary mission is to organize, train, and equip forces to conduct prompt and sustained land
combat to defeat enemy ground forces and seize, occupy, and defend land areas. Army forces accomplish
their missions by conducting operations on behalf of the joint force commander (JFC) and achieving
objectives on land that contribute to sustainable policy outcomes, as determined by U.S. political leadership.
An operation is a sequence of tactical actions with a common purpose or unifying theme (JP 1, Volume 1).
Army forces conduct operations to achieve objectives that are in the United States’ national interest. Army
forces prepare to conduct operations across the range of military operations as part of a larger joint effort
with allies and partners.

WAR AND WARFARE
1-2. War is chaotic, lethal, and a fundamentally human endeavor. It is a clash of wills fought among and
between people. All war is inherently changing human behavior with each side trying to alter the behavior
of the other by force. Success requires the ability to outthink an opponent and exploit the opportunities that
come from positions of relative advantage. The side that is best prepared, best understands an operational
environment, adapts more rapidly, and acts more quickly in conditions of uncertainty is the one most likely
to win.
1-3. Understanding friendly, enemy, and other environmental factors is essential to being able to create and
exploit the relative advantages that allow Army forces to defeat adversaries and enemies using economy of
force. Commanders cannot presume that superior military capability alone creates the desired effects on an
enemy force. Intangible factors, such as leadership, morale, will, surprise, and the human condition, can
overcome physical disadvantages and decide the outcome of operations. Commanders apply both the art of
command and science of war. They continually synchronize and converge all elements of combat power to
obtain a relative advantage by influencing enemies and populations, eroding the enemy’s will, and achieving
their higher commanders’ intended purposes.
1-4. War is inextricably tied to the people inhabiting land. All military capabilities ultimately link to land. In
most cases, the ability to prevail in ground combat becomes a decisive factor in breaking an enemy force’s
will. Understanding the human context that drives the enemy’s will, which includes culture, economics, and
history, is as important as understanding the enemy force’s military capabilities.
1-5. While the nature of war does not change, the way in which armies conduct warfare does change based
on many factors. The factors can include policy objectives and relative advantages of the opposing sides,
popular will and national interests, methods employed, types of capabilities employed, and the influence of
terrain and weather.
1-6. Warfare rarely fits neatly into a specific category, but it often reflects a blend of conventional and
irregular warfare methods. Conventional warfare is a violent struggle for domination between nationstates or coalitions of nation-states. Conventional warfare is almost always complemented and reinforced
by irregular warfare. Irregular warfare is the overt, clandestine, and covert employment of military and
nonmilitary capabilities by state and nonstate actors to achieve policy objectives other than military
domination of an enemy, either as the primary approach or in concert with conventional warfare.
Irregular warfare is historically the most common form of warfare conducted by Army forces and combines
a variety of methods and types of forces to achieve objectives. (See FM 3-0 for more information on
conventional and irregular warfare.)

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

1

Chapter 1

OFFENSE, DEFENSE, AND STABILITY
1-7. Offensive, defensive, and stability operations occur during conventional and irregular warfare. Divisions
and higher echelons typically perform some combination of all three operations simultaneously in their
operations. However, the lower the echelon, the more likely that formation will focus on conducting one type
of operation at a time.
1-8. Offensive and defensive operations dominate the conduct of large-scale combat operations and focus on
the destruction of an opponent’s ability to fight. Offensive operations are generally high-risk efforts, but they
have the greatest impact on the enemy. Defensive operations hold ground, economize combat power, and
buy time to generate combat power for future offensive operations. Although large-scale combat focuses on
enemy forces, Army forces conduct minimum stability tasks throughout armed conflict because of moral,
legal, and mission requirements.
1-9. Offensive operations impose the commander’s will on an enemy force. An offensive operation is an
operation to defeat or destroy enemy forces and gain control of terrain, resources, and population
centers. The offense is the most direct means of seizing, retaining, and exploiting the initiative to gain a
physical advantage. Offensive operations capitalize on speed, surprise, and shock to destroy enemy forces.
If an offensive operation fails to destroy an enemy force, operations continue until enemy forces are defeated.
An offensive operation compels an enemy force to react, creating new or larger weaknesses that the attacking
force can exploit. (See ADP 3-90 for a detailed discussion of the offense.)
1-10. Defensive operations preserve control over land, resources, and populations, and they retain key terrain,
protect lines of communications, and protect critical capabilities against attack. A defensive operation is an
operation to defeat an enemy attack, gain time, and develop conditions favorable for offensive or
stability operations. Normally the defense cannot achieve a decisive victory. However, it sets conditions for
a counteroffensive or a counterattack that enables forces to regain the initiative. Defensive operations are a
counter to an enemy offensive action, and they seek to destroy as much of the attacking enemy force as
possible. Commanders can conduct defensive operations in one area to free forces for offensive operations
elsewhere. (See ADP 3-90 for a detailed discussion of the defense.)
1-11. Stability operations contribute to regional security in support of U.S. security and humanitarian
interests. They can help establish political, legal, social, and economic institutions in an area while supporting
a transition of responsibility to a legitimate authority. Stability operations involve coercive and constructive
action. A stability operation is an operation conducted outside the United States, in coordination with
other instruments of national power, to establish or maintain a secure environment and provide
essential governmental services, emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief.
Stability operations support governance by a host nation, an interim government, or a military government.
Army forces are required to perform minimum-essential stability tasks when controlling populated areas of
operations. Army forces establish civil security and civil control, and they provide for immediate needs,
including food, water, shelter, and emergency medical treatment. Commanders at all levels assess resources
available against the mission to determine how best to conduct these minimum-essential stability tasks and
what risk they can accept to the mission. (See ADP 3-07 for a detailed discussion of stability.)

DEFENSE SUPPORT OF CIVIL AUTHORITIES AND HOMELAND DEFENSE
1-12. When directed, Army forces conduct operations in support of civil authorities and in support homeland
defense operations. Defense support of civil authorities (DSCA) are tasks executed in the homeland and U.S.
territories. It is performed to support another primary agency, lead federal agency, or local authority. DSCA
is support provided in response to requests for assistance for domestic emergencies, law enforcement support,
and other domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special events. (Refer to DODD 3025.18 for
details on DSCA. See the glossary for the full definition of DSCA.) When the Secretary of Defense authorizes
DSCA, National Guard forces—Title 32 or state active forces under the command and control of the governor
and the adjutant general—are usually the first forces to respond on behalf of state authorities. When federal
military forces are employed for DSCA activities, they remain under federal military command and control
at all times.
1-13. The Department of Defense (DOD) has lead responsibility for homeland defense. Homeland defense is
the military protection of United States sovereignty and territory against external threats and aggression or,

2

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

as directed by the President, other threats (JP 3-27). The strategy for homeland defense (and DSCA) calls for
defending U.S. territory against attack by state and nonstate actors through an active, layered defense that
aims to deter and defeat aggression abroad and to simultaneously protect the homeland. The Army supports
this strategy with capabilities in forward regions of the world, geographic approaches to U.S. territory, and
within the U.S. homeland. (See DODD 3025.18, JP 3-27, JP 3-28, and ADP 3-28 for detailed discussions of
DSCA and homeland defense.)

LEVELS OF WARFARE
1-14. Army leaders understand their environment and organize their activities among four levels of warfare—
national strategic, theater strategic, operational, and tactical. Commanders use the levels of warfare model to
help visualize a logical arrangement of forces, allocate resources, and assign tasks based on a strategic
purpose, informed by the conditions within their operational environments.
1-15. The national strategic level of warfare is the level of warfare at which the United States
government formulates policy goals and ways to achieve them by synchronizing action across
government and unified action partners and by employing the instruments of national power. The
national strategic level of warfare focuses on developing global strategy and providing global strategic
direction.
1-16. The theater strategic level of warfare is the level of warfare at which combatant commanders
synchronize with unified action partners and employ all instruments of national power to fulfill policy
aims within the assigned theater in support of the national strategy. Based on strategic guidance, theater
army commanders update their theater strategic estimates and develop theater strategies to support their
combatant commands.
1-17. The operational level of warfare links the tactical employment of forces to national and theater strategic
objectives. The operational level of warfare is the level of warfare in which campaigns and operations are
planned, conducted, and sustained to achieve operational objectives to support achievement of strategic
objectives (JP 3-0). The operational level of warfare focuses on the design and building of an operational
approach to execute major operations or globally integrated joint campaigns. (See Chapter 4 for a detailed
discussion on campaigns and operational art.)
1-18. The tactical level of warfare is the level of warfare at which forces plan and execute battles and
engagements to achieve military objectives (JP 3-0). The tactical level of warfare involves the employment
and ordered arrangement of forces in relation to each other.

ARMY STRATEGIC ROLES
1-19. Army forces accomplish their mission by supporting the joint force and unified action partners in four
strategic roles. The Army’s strategic roles are shape operational environments, counter aggression during
crisis, prevail during large-scale combat operations, and consolidate gains. The strategic roles are not tasks
to subordinate units. They clarify the enduring reasons for which the Army is organized, trained, and
equipped. Army forces demonstrate credible combat readiness and discourage malign adversary behavior on
land. The threat of lethal force supports integrated deterrence and makes other instruments of national power
more effective.

SHAPE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTS
1-20. Army operations to dissuade adversary activities strive to achieve regional goals short of military
conflict and establish conditions for a favorable outcome in the event of a military confrontation. The Army
provides trained and ready forces to combatant commanders to support the execution of joint campaigns.
Theater armies and subordinate Army forces help the combatant commander build partner capacity and
capability while promoting stability across an area of responsibility. Successful prosecution of large-scale
combat operations in one theater of war can deter adversary malign behavior in other theaters.
1-21. Army forces help the joint force shape operational environments through many activities. These
activities include—
• Supporting security cooperation.
• Maintaining a forward presence to promote U.S. interests.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

3

Chapter 1

•
•
•
•

Developing allied and friendly military capabilities for self-defense and multinational operations.
Continuously setting and maintaining the theater for the joint force.
Providing peacetime and contingency access to allies and partners.
Demonstrating credible combat capabilities during training and exercises.

1-22. Accomplishing objectives to strengthen the global network of multinational allies and partners and to
prevent conflict requires regionally aligned and engaged Army forces. Army forces pre-position equipment
in areas that enable national leaders to respond quickly to contingencies. Army forces conduct operational
readiness, training, and planning for potential operations as home station activities that also shape operational
environments.

COUNTER AGGRESSION DURING CRISIS
1-23. Army forces enable the joint force to counter aggression on the ground when an adversary begins to
escalate tensions in a theater of war. Typically, indications and warnings provide signs that an adversary
intends to conduct military operations or activities. Army support to countering adversary aggression aims
to change an adversary’s risk calculus by immediately raising the adversary’s costs for actions that threaten
U.S. interests. Operations and activities designed to counter aggression are time sensitive and weighted
toward actions to protect friendly forces, assets, and partners, and to indicate U.S. intent to begin execution
of an operation plan if needed.
1-24. As part of a joint force, Army forces often have a significant role in the execution of directed flexible
deterrent options and flexible response options. These responses could include shows of force and
demonstrations to highlight selected ground force capabilities and demonstrate national will. Army
operations and activities designed to counter aggression may include mobilization, force tailoring, and other
predeployment activities. They may also involve initial deployment into an operational area, including
echeloning command posts; employing intelligence collection assets; and further developing
communications, sustainment, and protection infrastructure to support the JFC’s concept of operations. No
matter the methods selected, successfully countering aggression requires the demonstrated ability to rapidly
deploy a properly manned, equipped, and trained Army force that can enable the joint force to prevail in
large-scale combat operations.

PREVAIL DURING LARGE-SCALE COMBAT OPERATIONS
1-25. Large-scale combat operations are extensive joint combat operations in terms of scope and size of
forces committed, conducted as a campaign aimed at achieving operational and strategic objectives.
When conducted on land, large-scale combat operations involve multiple corps and divisions. Large-scale
combat can occur above and below the nuclear threshold and is not synonymous with total war. Planning for
large-scale combat operations against enemies possessing nuclear weapons and the will to employ them must
account for the possibility of their use against friendly forces. The operational approaches employed by JFCs
may thus be constrained to avoid nuclear escalation in terms of their geographic depth and assigned
objectives. Large-scale combat operations, while potentially enormous in scale and scope, are typically
limited by the law of armed conflict and political objectives of the conflict itself. Against nuclear-armed
enemies, the political objectives of a conflict are also informed by the strategic risk inherent in escalation.
While the scale and scope of conventional conflict since 1945 has been smaller than World War II, largescale combat operations retain their inherent lethality and complexity.
1-26. During large-scale ground combat, Army forces focus on defeating enemy ground forces as part of a
joint and combined team. Army forces close with and destroy enemy forces in any terrain, exploit success,
and break an opponent’s will to resist. Army forces attack, defend, perform stability tasks, and consolidate
gains to accomplish national objectives during joint campaigns. Field armies (when constituted), corps, and
divisions are the formations central to the conduct of large-scale ground combat operations. The ability to
prevail in ground combat is a decisive factor in breaking an enemy’s ability to continue a conflict. Conflict
resolution usually requires Army forces to conduct sustained operations with unified action partners to
consolidate gains as long as necessary to accomplish national objectives.
1-27. Successful operations against peer threats with chemical and nuclear weapons have unique planning
considerations. Operational commanders must understand the risk of an enemy miscalculating the
consequences of first use and units must be prepared to operate degraded in contaminated environments.

4

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

Army forces survive, maintain cohesion, and continue to operate and achieve objectives in chemical and
nuclear environments. Planning and training include active and passive measures for protection against the
effects of these weapons and techniques for mitigating their effects to preserve combat power. This planning
and training includes greater emphasis on dispersion, survivability, and redundant communications at all
echelons. Survivability in contaminated environments is a training and readiness imperative. Survivability
must be incorporated into every facet of doctrine and training, so units and commanders are operationally
and psychologically prepared for the environments they may encounter. (See ATP 3-72 for more information
on operations in a nuclear environment.)

CONSOLIDATE GAINS
1-28. Consolidation of gains is an integral and continuous part of armed conflict, and it is necessary for
achieving success across the phases of an operation. Consolidate gains are activities to make enduring any
temporary operational success and to set the conditions for a sustainable strategic environment,
allowing for a transition of control to other legitimate authorities. Army forces deliberately plan to
consolidate gains throughout an operation as part of defeating enemy forces in detail and accomplishing
overall political and strategic objectives.
1-29. Consolidation activities are a form of exploitation performed while other operations are ongoing, and
they enable the achievement of lasting favorable outcomes in the shortest time. When commanders
consolidate gains throughout an operation, they may accept the risk of slower tempo in the near term to
prevent the enemy from protracting the conflict with bypassed or irregular forces that can be reorganized to
continue fighting. Some circumstances exist when a commander accepts risk by deciding to consolidate gains
in a later phase during operations because of an initial need to conduct operations at a higher tempo.
1-30. Army forces perform consolidation activities through and with unified action partners. In some
instances, Army forces will oversee activities to consolidate gains. In other situations, Army forces will
support an ally or partner. Army forces may consolidate gains for a sustained period over large land areas.
While Army forces consolidate gains throughout an operation, consolidating gains becomes the overall focus
of Army forces at the conclusion of large-scale combat operations.
1-31. Army tactical forces integrate indigenous populations and institutions to consolidate gains. Indigenous
populations and institutions are the societal framework of an operational environment that includes
governmental, tribal, ethnic, religious, commercial, and private entities. Effectively integrating indigenous
populations and institutions significantly reduces the need for U.S. Army conventional forces to conduct
security and stability operations. Commanders integrate special operations forces and civil affairs forces to
effectively plan and execute operations with indigenous populations and institutions. (See JP 3-57 for
additional information on civil-military operations.)

STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENT
1-32. The strategic environment is characterized by great power competition. It includes a wide range of
threats and hazards that face the nation—none more dangerous to U.S. vital interests than large-scale combat
operations against peer threats. To better describe this fluid environment, joint doctrine describes the strategic
environment in terms of a competition continuum. The joint competition continuum establishes three broad
categories of strategic relationships—cooperation, adversarial competition below armed conflict, and armed
conflict. These relationships are defined as between the U.S. and other strategic actors relative to a specific
set of policy aims. (See JP 3-0 for more information about the joint competition continuum.)
1-33. Combatant commanders, working with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, campaign across the
competition continuum in a globally integrated manner to employ limited military resources in the most
efficient way possible. Theater armies support joint campaigns across the competition continuum with Army
forces in their assigned areas of responsibility.

STRATEGIC CONTEXTS
1-34. Army formations below the theater army level typically conduct operations within a context dominated
by one strategic relationship at a time. Within these contexts, Army forces execute operations. There are three
strategic contexts in which Army forces conduct operations:
• Competition below armed conflict.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

5

Chapter 1

•
•

Crisis.
Armed conflict.

1-35. Competition below armed conflict exists when two or more state or nonstate adversaries have
incompatible interests, but neither seeks armed conflict. Nation-states compete using all instruments of
national power to gain and maintain relative advantages that help them achieve their goals. Competition is
when Army forces prepare for crisis or armed conflict, exploit opportunities to demonstrate U.S. commitment
to allies and partners, and help set conditions to prevent crisis or armed conflict through activities that
contribute to deterrence. Army forces enable deterrence through training, by enhancing interoperability with
key multinational allies and partners within the strategic landpower networks, and by maintaining a high
level of individual and unit readiness.
1-36. A crisis may occur when adversary behavior creates undesirable conditions to which the United States
must respond. A crisis is an emerging incident or situation involving a possible threat to the United States,
its citizens, military forces, or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such diplomatic,
economic, or military importance that commitment of military forces and resources is contemplated to
achieve national and/or strategic objectives (JP 3-0). A crisis may be the result of adversary actions or
indications and warnings of imminent action. During crisis, armed conflict has not yet occurred, but it is a
distinct possibility that requires rapid response by forces prepared to fight.
1-37. Armed conflict occurs when a state or nonstate actor uses lethal force as the primary means to satisfy
its interests. Entering and terminating armed conflict is a political decision. Army forces may enter armed
conflicts either with some advanced warning or abruptly if an enemy provides no clear warning or indications.
How well Army forces are prepared to enter an armed conflict ultimately depends upon decisions and
preparations made during competition.
1-38. No matter the context, the Regular Army, Army National Guard, and Army Reserve forces support the
defense of the homeland. The interconnected global capabilities of peer threats, terrorist groups, and proxy
groups require Army forces to assume all current and future operations will impact the homeland in some
manner. This means the total Army contributes to homeland defense and DSCA. Army forces are uniquely
postured to provide national, state, and local leaders with the requisite capabilities and capacity to counter
adversary and enemy activities across the homeland.

THREATS AND HAZARDS
1-39. Threats are a fundamental part of an operational environment. A threat is any combination of actors,
entities, or forces that have the capability and intent to harm United States forces, United States
national interests, or the homeland. Threats may include individuals, organized or unorganized groups,
paramilitary or military forces, nation-states, or national alliance forces. Threats to the United States are
hybrid, reflecting a range of different capabilities, types of forces, and methods combined in ways that make
them resilient, adaptive, and difficult to defeat in a single, decisive effort. Commanders and staffs must
understand how current and potential threats organize, equip, train, employ, and control their forces. They
must continually identify, monitor, and assess threats as they adapt and change over time.
1-40. A peer threat is an adversary or enemy force with capabilities and capacity to oppose U.S. forces across
multiple domains worldwide or in a specific region where the threat enjoys multiple positions of relative
advantage. Peer threats possess roughly equal combat power to U.S. forces in geographic proximity to a
conflict area. Peer threats may also have a cultural affinity with specific regions, providing them relative
advantages in the physical, information, and human dimensions. They generate national strategic, theater
strategic, operational, and tactical challenges that contest the joint force in all domains.
1-41. In general, threats qualify as either an enemy or an adversary. An enemy is a party identified as hostile
against which the use of force is authorized. An enemy is also called a combatant and is treated as one
under the laws of war. Enemies will apply advanced technologies, such as a cyberspace attack, and simple
and dual-use technologies, such as improvised explosive devices. Enemies avoid U.S. strengths, such as longrange surveillance and precision strike missiles, through countermeasures, such as Global Positioning System
(known as GPS) jamming, integrated air defense systems, dispersion, concealment, and intermingling with
civilian populations. An adversary is a party acknowledged as potentially hostile to a friendly party and
against which the use of force may be envisaged (JP 3-0). Below the threshold of armed conflict, Army forces

6

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

contribute to integrated deterrence by preparing to defeat adversaries, countering adversary aggression, and
controlling escalation of violence.
1-42. A hazard is a condition with the potential to cause injury, illness, or death of personnel; damage to or
loss of equipment or property; or mission degradation. Hazards include disease, extreme weather phenomena,
solar flares, and areas contaminated by toxic materials. Hazards can damage or destroy resources, reduce
combat power, and contribute to early culmination that prevents mission accomplishment. Commanders
consider hazards and their effects on operations in the context of terrain, weather, and various other factors
related to a particular mission.
1-43. Peer threats can employ resources from multiple domains to create lethal and nonlethal effects
throughout an operational environment. To achieve their operational and strategic objectives, they often will
seek to delay deployment of U.S. forces and inflict significant damage across multiple domains in a short
time. Peer threats use various methods to employ their instruments of power to render U.S. military power
irrelevant. Five broad methods, used in combination by peer threats, include—
• Information warfare.
• Preclusion.
• Isolation.
• Sanctuary.
• Systems warfare.
(See FM 3-0 for an expanded discussion on contested deployments and these five broad threat methods.)
1-44. Enemies and adversaries pursue antiaccess and area denial (known as A2AD) approaches, putting U.S.
power projection at risk and enabling an extension of their coercive power well beyond their borders. As a
result, the United States may be unable to employ forces with complete freedom of action. The ability of U.S.
forces to deliberately build up combat power, perform detailed rehearsals and integration activities, and then
conduct operations on their own initiative will likely be limited.
1-45. Threats might use cyberspace attack capabilities (such as disruptive and destructive malware),
electronic warfare, and space capabilities (such as electromagnetic pulse weapons). These capabilities can
create a denied, degraded, and disrupted space domain to disrupt—
• U.S. communications.
• Positioning, navigation, and timing.
• Synchronization.
• Freedom of maneuver.
(See FM 3-14 for detailed space operations.) Finally, threats may strike installations inside and outside the
continental United States to disrupt or delay deployment of forces. Cyber and space threats are not specific
to any single theater of operations since there are few geographic constraints on their employment.

CURRENT THREATS
1-46. While states are the principal actors on the global stage, violent extremist organizations continue to
undermine regional security in areas such as Southwest Asia and Africa. These groups radicalize populations,
incite violence, and employ terror to further their political and social goals. Violent extremist organizations
often coexist with criminal organizations, where both profit from illicit trade and the spread of corruption, to
further undermine security and stability. Violent extremist organizations may be in possession of or be in
pursuit of weapons of mass destruction which threaten stability across the globe and in the United States. To
meet these threats, the Army maintains doctrine and subject matter experts focused on irregular approaches.
Army leaders recognize that significantly less risk occurs in transitioning a force optimized for large-scale
combat operations to conduct less intense types of operations than in taking a force organized, trained, and
equipped for less intense operations and transitioning it to conduct large-scale combat operations.
1-47. Rogue regimes are a persistent threat to U.S. interests. They can contest the joint force under certain
circumstances and achieve objectives counter to U.S. policy. Currently, North Korea seeks to guarantee
survival of its regime and to increase its leverage. It actively stocks both conventional and chemical,
biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) weapons, and it adds to its ballistic missile capability to gain
coercive influence over South Korea, Japan, and the United States. Similarly, Iran seeks dominance over its

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

7

Chapter 1

neighbors by asserting an arc of influence and instability while vying for regional hegemony. Iran uses statesponsored terrorist activities, a network of proxies, and its missile capabilities to achieve its objectives.
1-48. China and Russia possess capabilities and forces that are evenly matched with those of the U.S. joint
force, and they can threaten U.S. survival and its vital interests. Their combination of threat methods makes
them difficult to counter during competition and difficult to defeat in a single, decisive effort during armed
conflict. China and Russia employ standoff capabilities that increase risk to the joint force’s ability to access
and maintain freedom of maneuver throughout contested areas. China and Russia both combine irregular and
conventional approaches in pursuit of their objectives. During competition, China and Russia pursue their
objectives without triggering armed conflict with the United States but while employing irregular methods
that include information warfare. Large-scale combat operations against China and Russia represent the least
likely, but most demanding, type of conflict for Army forces. Therefore, during competition, Army forces
must prepare for large-scale ground combat operations.

OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT
1-49. When preparing for armed conflict, commanders and staffs consider a set of complex, dynamic, and
adaptive operational variables: political, military, economic, social, information, infrastructure, physical
environment, and time. Leaders use these variables together to analyze an operational environment. An
operational environment is the aggregate of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the
employment of capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander (JP 3-0). For Army forces, an
operational environment includes portions of the land, maritime, air, space, and cyberspace domains
understood through three dimensions (physical, information, and human). Army forces also consider
operational and mission variables to understand their operational environment.

DOMAINS AND DIMENSIONS
1-50. A domain is a physically defined portion of an operational environment requiring a unique set of
warfighting capabilities and skills (FM 3-0). Army leaders conceptualize an operational environment that
includes five domains (land, maritime, air, space, and cyberspace) and three dimensions (physical,
information, and human). Despite the domains being differentiated by their physical characteristics, the
dimensions remind leaders that Army forces conduct operations to influence human behavior. The
dimensions enable commanders and staffs to better assess relative advantages and anticipate the impacts of
their operations. (See Figure 1-1 for a depiction of the domains and dimensions of an operational
environment.)
1-51. Although leaders must understand the broad interdependencies among the domains, no two operational
environments are the same. An operational environment consists of many relationships and interactions
among interrelated variables. How entities and conditions interact within an operational environment is often
difficult to understand and requires continuous analysis using operational and mission variables.
1-52. The complex and dynamic nature of an operational environment makes determining the relationship
between cause and effect difficult and contributes to the friction and uncertainty inherent in military
operations. Commanders and staffs continually assess their operational environments and re-assess their
assumptions. (See FM 3-0 for an expanded discussion of operational environments.)

8

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

Figure 1-1. Domains and dimensions of an operational environment

OPERATIONAL VARIABLES
1-53. Commanders and staffs use operational and mission variables to build an understanding of an
operational environment. Operational variables are those aspects of an operational environment, both military
and nonmilitary, that may differ from one operational area to another and affect operations. Operational
variables describe not only the military aspects of an operational environment, but also the population’s
influence on it. Using the Army design methodology, planners analyze an operational environment in terms
of eight interrelated operational variables: political, military, economic, social, information, infrastructure,
physical environment, and time. As soon as a commander and staff have an indication of where their unit
will conduct operations, they begin analyzing the operational variables associated with that location. They
continue to refine and update that analysis throughout the course of operations.

MISSION VARIABLES
1-54. Upon receipt of an order, Army leaders filter information from operational variables into mission
variables during mission analysis. The mission variables known as METT-TC (I)—mission, enemy, terrain
and weather, troops and support available, time available, civil considerations, and informational
considerations—act as a filter. Army leaders use the mission variables to refine their understanding of the
situation. Incorporating the analysis of the operational variables with the mission variables ensures that Army
leaders consider the best available information about the mission. (See FM 5-0 for more information on the
operational and mission variables.)

ARMY SUPPORT TO JOINT CAMPAIGNS AND OPERATIONS
1-55. Army forces support joint campaigns in various ways, including integrating with unified action
partners, conducting a range of military operations, and dominating close combat on land. The joint force
persistently campaigns to build credible integrated deterrence. When deterrence fails, the joint force
campaigns to impose the nation’s will on its enemies. Campaigning is the persistent conduct of related
operations, activities, and investments that align military actions with the other instruments of national power,
supporting global integration across the competition continuum in pursuit of strategic objectives (JP 3-0).
The Army primarily contributes to joint force campaigning and integrated deterrence efforts by providing
forces able to conduct prompt and sustained land combat to defeat enemy ground forces and seize, occupy,
and defend land areas.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

9

Chapter 1

1-56. Swift campaigns, however desirable, are the historical exception. Whenever objectives involve
controlling populations or dominating terrain, campaign success usually requires employing landpower for
protracted periods. Landpower is the ability—by threat, force, or occupation—to gain, sustain, and
exploit control over land, resources, and people. The Army’s expeditionary campaign capabilities provide
sustained landpower to support unified action.
1-57. Forward deployed units, forward positioned capabilities, and force projection—from anywhere in the
world—all contribute to the Army’s expeditionary capabilities. The Army’s ability to sustain forces from all
Services and designated allies and partners provides the joint force with the endurance required to sustain
campaigns through to mission accomplishment. (See Chapter 4 for more information on campaigning.)
1-58. Army forces continuously develop a global landpower network with allies and other unified action
partners. Conventional forces and Army special operations forces contribute in different ways to develop and
maintain this network across the competition continuum.

INTEGRATING WITH UNIFIED ACTION PARTNERS
1-59. Army forces conduct multidomain operations as part of the joint force and unified action. Unified action
is the synchronization, coordination, or integration of the activities of governmental and nongovernmental
entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort (JP 1, Volume 1). Commanders improve the
cohesion of unified action partners by cultivating unity of effort. Unity of effort is coordination and
cooperation toward common objectives, even if the participants are not necessarily part of the same command
or organization that is the product of successful unified action (JP 1, Volume 2). All participants contributing
to an operation are considered unified action partners. Unified action partners are those military forces,
governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private sector with whom
Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of operations. Military
forces play a key role in unified action before, during, and after campaigns and subordinate operations. (See
paragraphs 3-1 through 3-3 for more information on multidomain operations.)

Joint Operations
1-60. Single Services may perform tasks and missions to support DOD objectives. However, the DOD
primarily employs two or more Services in a single operation across all domains, particularly during combat,
through joint operations. Joint operations are military actions conducted by joint forces and those Service
forces employed in specified command relationships with each other, which of themselves, do not establish
joint forces (JP 3-0). A joint force is a force composed of significant elements, assigned or attached, of two
or more Military Departments that operate under a single joint force commander (JP 1, Volume 1). Joint
operations exploit the advantages of interdependent Service capabilities through unified action using all
domain approaches.
1-61. Army forces are the dominant U.S. fighting force in the land domain. Army forces both depend upon
and enable the joint force across the land, maritime, air, space, and cyberspace domains. This mutual
interdependence creates powerful synergies and reflects the fact that all operations by Army forces are
combined arms conducted in multiple domains and dimensions. Army forces depend on other Services for
strategic and operational mobility, joint fires, and other key enabling capabilities. Army forces support the
other Services, combatant commands, and unified action partners with ground-based indirect fires and
ballistic missile defense, defensive cyberspace operations, electromagnetic protection, communications,
intelligence, rotary-wing aircraft, logistics, and engineering.
1-62. The Army’s ability to set and sustain a theater of operations enables joint force freedom of action.
Setting the theater is the broad range of activities continuously conducted to establish conditions for
the successful execution of operations in a theater. Setting and maintaining the theater for the joint force
never ends. It is conducted to enhance an operational environment in ways favorable to friendly forces, and
it occurs during competition, crisis, and armed conflict. While setting the theater occurs across each strategic
context, its importance is greatest during competition because that is when friendly forces have the initiative
and the most available time. Army forces must set the theater during competition to enable quick transitions
during crisis and armed conflict, when the initial time advantage is with the aggressor. Each warfighting
function has a role in setting the theater. Army forces use military engagements, security cooperation, and
other activities to assess and understand the current conditions within the theater and to execute specific

10

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

theater setting activities. Setting the theater enables Army forces, the joint force, and interagency partners to
conduct successful offensive, defensive, and stability operations or DSCA. Army forces establish, maintain,
and defend vital infrastructure. They also provide the JFC with unique capabilities, such as port and airfield
opening; logistics; CBRN defense; and reception, staging, and onward movement, and integration of forces.

Coordination and Cooperation
1-63. Interagency coordination is integral to successful unified action. Interagency coordination is the
planning and synchronization of efforts that occur between elements of Department of Defense and
participating United States Government departments and agencies (JP 3-0). Army forces conduct and
participate in interagency coordination using established liaison, personal engagement, and planning
processes.
1-64. Unified action may require interorganizational cooperation to build the capacity of unified action
partners. Interorganizational cooperation is the interaction that occurs among elements of the Department of
Defense; participating United States Government departments and agencies; state, territorial, local, and tribal
agencies; foreign military forces and government agencies; international organizations; nongovernmental
organizations; and the private sector (JP 3-08). Building partner capacity and capabilities helps to secure
populations, protects infrastructure, and strengthens institutions as a means of protecting common security
interests. Building partner capacity and capabilities results from comprehensive interorganizational activities,
programs, and military-to-military engagements united by a common purpose. The Army integrates
capabilities of operating forces and the institutional force to support interorganizational capacity and
capability-building efforts, primarily through security cooperation interactions.
1-65. When directed, Army forces provide sustainment and security for civilian organizations. Within the
context of interagency coordination, this refers to non-DOD agencies of the U.S. Government. Other
government agencies include, but are not limited to, the Departments of State, Justice, Transportation, and
Agriculture.
1-66. An international organization is created by a formal agreement between two or more governments on
a global, regional, or functional basis to protect and promote national interests shared by member states or
for wide-ranging or narrowly defined purposes. Examples include the United Nations, the European Union,
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and International Red Cross.
1-67. Army forces and nongovernmental organizations are often in situations when their interests overlap. A
nongovernmental organization is a private, self-governing, not-for-profit organization dedicated to
alleviating human suffering; and/or promoting education, health care, economic development, environmental
protection, human rights, and conflict resolution; and/or encouraging the establishment of democratic
institutions and civil society (JP 3-08). The mission is generally humanitarian and not one concerned with
assisting military forces in accomplishing their objectives. In some circumstances, nongovernmental
organizations may provide humanitarian aid simultaneously to elements of both sides in a conflict.
1-68. A contractor is an individual or business, including authorized subcontractors, that provides products
or services for monetary compensation, or other consideration, in accordance with the terms and conditions
of a contract. Contracted support includes traditional goods and services support, but it may also include
interpreter communication, infrastructure, and other related support. Contractor employees include
contractors authorized to accompany the force as a formal part of the force and local national employees who
normally have no special legal status. (See ATP 4-10 for more information on contractors.)
1-69. Most civilian organizations are not under military control, nor the control of the American ambassador
or a United Nations commissioner. Civilian organizations have different organizational cultures and norms.
Some may be willing to work with Army forces; others may not. Civilian organizations may arrive well after
military operations have begun, making personal contact and team building essential. Command emphasis
on immediate and continuous coordination encourages effective cooperation. Commanders should establish
liaison with civilian organizations to integrate their efforts as much as possible with Army and joint
operations. Civil affairs units typically establish this liaison. (See FM 3-57 for more information on civilmilitary integration.)

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

11

Chapter 1

Multinational Operations
1-70. Army forces should anticipate that most operations will be multinational operations demanding human,
technical, and procedural interoperability with allies and partners in accordance with campaign requirements.
Multinational operations is a collective term to describe military actions conducted by forces of two or more
nations, usually undertaken within the structure of a coalition or alliance (JP 3-16). While each nation has its
own interests and often participates within the limitations of national caveats, all nations bring value to an
operation. Each nation’s force has unique capabilities, and each usually contributes to an operation’s
legitimacy in terms of international or local acceptability. (See FM 3-16 for more information on
multinational operations.)
1-71. Whether being conducted as part of an alliance or a coalition, multinational operations are challenging.
An alliance is the relationship that results from a formal agreement between two or more nations for broad,
long-term objectives that further the common interests of the members. Military alliances, such as the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (commonly known as NATO), allow partners to establish formal, standard
agreements. Army forces must understand and abide with standard agreements. A coalition is an arrangement
between two or more nations for common action. Nations usually form coalitions for specific, limited
purposes. A coalition action is an action outside the bounds of established alliances, usually in a narrow area
of common interest. Army forces may participate in coalition and alliance actions under the authority of a
United Nations’ resolution or other international agreement. By preparing for armed conflict with allies and
partners, Army forces can effectively participate in an alliance or a coalition.

CONVENTIONAL AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES INTEGRATION
1-72. Army forces integrate conventional and special operations forces to create complementary and
reinforcing effects during operations. The mission and operational environment drive the command and
support relationships between conventional and special operations forces during an operation. Regardless of
command and control and support arrangements, both types of forces integrate and synchronize operations
to increase effectiveness, provide mutual support, limit the redundant use of resources, and reduce the risk of
fratricide. Army forces establish human, technical, and procedural interoperability between conventional and
special operations forces as part of integration.
1-73. Conventional forces integrate with special operations forces. During large-scale combat, conventional
forces contribute mass across all warfighting functions required to defeat enemy forces. Conventional forces
can partner with all unified action partners and employ security force assistance brigades that are specially
trained and organized for security force assistance missions. Special operations forces complement
conventional forces by performing core activities in deep, close, and rear areas, and in extended deep areas.
Army special operations forces are critical integrators of indigenous forces and other unified action partners.
A special operations joint task force acts as the unit of execution; facilitates conventional and special
operations forces integration, interoperability, and interdependence; and functions as a single special
operations forces headquarters to plan, coordinate, command, and control special operations elements in
theater and adjacent joint special operations areas. Army special operations forces, civil affairs, and
psychological operations units support joint special operations forces and conventional Army formations.
(See FM 6-05 for more information on integrating conventional forces and special operations forces.)

THE RANGE OF MILITARY OPERATIONS
1-74. Army forces conduct a wide variety of operations that contribute to joint campaigns and unified action.
The range of military operations is a model that helps relate Army operational categories that vary in scope
and purpose across the spectrum of violence and Army strategic contexts. During competition and crisis,
Army forces conduct operations to shape the strategic environment and prevent adversaries from achieving
their objectives without using armed force. During armed conflict, Army forces conduct operations to defeat
enemy forces. In all cases, Army forces conduct operations to establish the conditions necessary to achieve
their objectives. Grouping operational themes helps to describe the general characteristics of a major
operation or campaign, not the details of its execution. Characterizing the employment of military capabilities
as one or another type of military operation has several additional benefits. For example, publications can be
developed that describe the nature, tasks, and tactics associated with specific types of diverse operations,
such as noncombatant evacuation operations and counterinsurgencies.

12

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

The three operational categories in the range of military operations are—
• Military engagement and security cooperation.
• Crisis response and limited contingency.
• Large-scale combat operations.
(See FM 3-94 for more information on the range of military operations.)

CLOSE COMBAT
1-75. Close combat or the threat of close combat is required to defeat enemy forces. While deep fires are
critical to operations, enemy forces retain the ability to continue fighting until they are defeated or destroyed
in close combat. The nature of close combat in land operations is unique. Combatants routinely come faceto-face with one another in large numbers in a wide variety of operational environments comprising all types
of terrain. When other means fail to drive enemy forces from their positions, Army forces maneuver using
combined arms to close with and defeat or destroy them. The outcome of battles and engagements depends
on the ability of Army forces to close with enemy forces and prevail in close combat. Close combat is
warfare carried out on land in a direct-fire fight, supported by direct and indirect fires and other
assets. Units involved in close combat employ direct fire weapons supported by indirect fire, air-delivered
fires, and nonlethal engagement means. Units in close combat defeat or destroy enemy forces and seize and
retain ground. Close combat at lower echelons contains many more interactions between friendly and enemy
forces than any other form of combat.
1-76. When conducting close combat, enemy forces may seek to execute operations in difficult terrain where
friendly advantages in technology and weapon capabilities are negated. Urban terrain represents one of the
most likely close combat challenges. The complexity of urban terrain and the increased density of
noncombatants reduce the effectiveness of advanced sensors and long-range weapons. Operations in large,
densely populated areas require special considerations. From a planning perspective, commanders view cities
as both topographic features and a dynamic system of varying operational entities containing hostile forces,
local populations, and infrastructure. (See ATP 3-34.80 and ATP 3-06 for additional information regarding
complex terrain.)
1-77. Deception operations are essential for successful close combat and limited only by imagination.
Tactical deception in close combat operations involve the fight between the committed forces and the readily
available tactical reserves of both combatants. Deceptions employed during close operations—
• Can be deliberate or hasty.
• Should center around facilitating the tactical scheme of maneuver and fire support plan.
• Should have localized, immediate effects during battle.
Tactical deception is an activity planned and executed by, and in support of, tactical-level commanders to
cause enemy decision makers to take actions or inactions prejudicial to themselves and favorable to the
achievement of tactical commanders’ objectives (FM 3-13.4). Commanders conduct tactical deception to
influence military operations to gain a relative, tactical advantage over the enemy, obscure vulnerabilities in
friendly forces, and enhance the defensive capabilities of friendly forces.
1-78. Effective close combat relies on lethality informed by a high degree of situational understanding across
multiple domains. The capacity for physical destruction is the foundation of all other military capabilities,
and it is a building block of military operations. Army formations are organized, equipped, and trained to
employ lethal capabilities in a wide range of conditions. The demonstrable lethality of Army forces provides
the credibility essential to deterring adversaries and assuring allies and partners.
1-79. An inherently complementary relationship exists between using lethal force and applying military
capabilities for nonlethal purposes. In wartime, each situation requires a different mix of violence and
restraint. Lethal and nonlethal effects used together complement each other and create multiple dilemmas for
opponents. During operations short of armed conflict, the inherent lethality of Army forces enables them to
perform other tasks effectively with minimal adversary interference.

READINESS THROUGH TRAINING
1-80. Training is the most important thing the Army does to prepare for operations. It is the cornerstone of
combat readiness and the foundation for successful operations. Effective training must be commander driven,

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

13

Chapter 1

rigorous, realistic, and performed to the established standard under the conditions in which units expect to
operate during combat. Realistic training with limited time and resources demands that commanders focus
their unit training efforts to maximize repetitions under varying conditions to build proficiency. Units execute
effective collective and individual training based on the Army’s principles of training as described in FM 7-0.
Through training and leader development, units achieve the tactical and technical competence that builds
confidence and allows them to conduct successful operations across the competition continuum. Achieving
this competence requires specific, dedicated training on offensive, defensive, and stability or DSCA tasks.
Training continues for deployed units so they can sustain skills and adapt to changes in an operational
environment. (See FM 7-0 for training doctrine.)
1-81. Army training enables formations to determine, acquire, and practice necessary operational skills. The
Army’s training system emphasizes experiential practice and learning to build teamwork and cohesion within
units. It recognizes that Soldiers ultimately fight for one another and their units. Training instills discipline.
It conditions Soldiers to operate within the law of armed conflict and rules of engagement. Training prepares
unit leaders for the harsh reality of land combat by emphasizing the fluid and disorderly conditions inherent
in land operations. Effective training accounts for employing space, cyberspace, and other capabilities that
influence the warfighting functions. Training must also account for the threat’s use of similar capabilities.
Well-rounded training includes candid assessments, after action reviews, and applied lessons learned to
ensure improved readiness. Adversaries assess the training readiness of Army forces continuously, which is
how training helps to shape operational environments. Training creates combat credibility by demonstrating
the ability to conduct offensive and defensive operations against an adversary. This in turn contributes to
deterrence.
1-82. Regardless of the importance of technological capabilities, success in operations relies on Soldiers to
accomplish the mission. Demanding operational environments require professional Soldiers and leaders
whose character, commitment, and competence represent the foundation of a values-based, trained, and ready
Army. Soldiers and leaders adapt and learn while training to perform tasks both individually and collectively.
Soldiers and leaders cultivate their ability to exercise judgment and disciplined initiative under stress.
1-83. The complexity of integrating all unified action partners and capabilities across multiple domains into
operations is challenging. This complexity demands that Army forces maintain proficiency that is difficult
to achieve quickly. Leaders at all echelons seek training opportunities involving conventional forces, special
operations forces, the Regular Army, Reserve Components, and unified action partners at home station, at
combat training centers, and when deployed. Formations train in contested conditions that emphasize
degraded friendly capabilities, reduced time for preparation, and austere expeditionary conditions.
1-84. U.S. responsibilities are global, and Army forces prepare to operate in any environment. Because Army
forces face diverse threats and mission requirements, commanders adjust their training priorities based on a
likely operational environment. As units prepare for deployment, commanders adapt training priorities and
conditions to best address tasks required by actual or anticipated operations.

THEORY OF VICTORY
1-85. The Army is a globally engaged, regionally responsive force that provides its full range of capabilities
to combatant commanders in four primary roles. Army forces shape operational environments, counter
aggression during crisis, prevail during large-scale combat, and consolidate gains on land for the joint force.
Army forces adapt to shifting operational environments and new technologies in a threat-focused manner
that creates dilemmas for opponents. As part of an interdependent joint team, Army forces conduct offensive,
defensive, and stability operations with allies and partners to achieve objectives for joint force commanders.
Army forces defeat capable threats through a combined arms approach that creates and expands relative
advantages over time. They do so in three operational contexts: competition below the threshold of conflict,
crisis, and conflict.
1-86. During competition, Army forces help combatant commanders set theaters and improve regional
security in ways that support mutual interests through joint campaigning that involves numerous cooperative
actions with other nations’ armies. Army forces alter conditions that, if left unchanged, can precipitate
international crisis or war. The support the United States provides through Army forces to partner nations
improves their ability to secure themselves and improves access to key regions. Security cooperation also
communicates the U.S. position to adversaries in those regions. When necessary, combat-ready Army units

14

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Foundations

deploy to threatened areas, reinforce host-nation forces, complement U.S. air and sea power, and
unmistakably communicate American intent to partner and adversary alike. These are tangible effects of the
Army’s role during competition. Other benefits are less tangible; these benefits are realized through face-toface training involving Soldiers and military partners. Working together develops interoperability and trust
between military forces and furthers the landpower network essential to deterring malign behavior by
adversaries. The positive impression Army forces make upon militaries, local leaders, and other government
agencies who interact with and observe them on the ground produces lasting benefits.
1-87. During crisis, Army forces set conditions to deny adversaries the ability to achieve objectives at
acceptable military and political costs. Crisis activities include actions to protect and secure friendly forces,
assets, and partners, and they indicate U.S. intent to execute subsequent phases of planned operations. As an
extension of operations during competition, Army forces conduct security cooperation tasks designed to
thwart the short-term success of an adversary, such as improving the readiness and effectiveness of
conventional military forces. Army forces may also assist partners with unconventional capabilities that
enable protracted resistance against a more powerful neighbor, should they face occupation after the defeat
of their conventional military forces. Credible capability and capacity for long-term irregular warfare can
deter adversaries sensitive to the economic and military costs of long-term conflict. Building irregular
capability and capacity in partner nations is likely to be more effective in situations where resource
constraints and geography make other options unrealistic.
1-88. Preventing conflict during competition and crisis requires combat credible Army forces. To prevent
conflicts, friends and adversaries must believe that the Army is credible. Credibility equates to capability,
and capability is built upon combat-ready forces that are forward positioned or can be tailored and deployed
rapidly. Partner nations under external threat need to understand that introducing U.S. forces alters the
regional military balance in their favor and bolsters their capability to resist aggression. Credible Army
forces, prepared to win during large-scale combat operations, reduce the risk of miscalculation by an
adversary and contribute to integrated deterrence when combined with the capabilities of the joint force,
allies, and partners.
1-89. During conflict, Army forces attack and defend against enemy forces using combinations of defeat
mechanisms employed through the tenets and imperatives of operations. JFCs require Army forces skilled in
the use of combined arms and able to employ all available Army and joint capabilities in complementary
ways. If an enemy cannot be defeated from a distance using Army and joint capabilities, then Army units
close with and destroy that enemy. Enemies whose operational approach depends upon integrated fires and
air defense systems require a level of centralized control and an information collection capability vulnerable
to deception, disruption, and isolation. Operations that effectively isolate parts of the system can destroy key
components of it in detail. Destroying those components enables rapid tactical maneuver at operational depth
and exploits disruptions to the system before the enemy can establish or re-establish the ability to mass
effects. Repeatedly exploiting the effects of isolation, destruction, and dislocation ultimately disintegrates
the enemy’s ability to resist. Establishing conditions for freedom of action while retaining mobility is critical
to creating a relative advantage on the ground for maneuver forces to exploit.
1-90. Tactical success wins battles but is not enough to win wars. Enduring security and political outcomes
require ending enemies’ abilities to resist by following through on initial battlefield successes. Army forces
play a vital role in the consolidation of gains. Rapidly consolidating gains is a form of exploitation that
transitions tactical advantages into enduring operational and strategic outcomes. Ensuring that enemies
cannot transition a conventional military defeat into a protracted irregular conflict that negates initial
successes is foundational to victory. Commanders account for every part of an enemy’s ability to resist and
address it during planning. Consolidating gains builds irreversible momentum towards the desired end state
and is a continuous process, and commanders should pursue that momentum towards the desired end state
relentlessly.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

15

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 2

Warfighting Functions and Combat Power
This chapter defines the six warfighting functions and discusses how they generate
combat power. It concludes with a description of the dynamics of combat power.

WARFIGHTING FUNCTIONS
2-1. The purpose of warfighting functions is to provide an intellectual organization for common critical
capabilities available to commanders and staffs at all echelons and levels of war. A warfighting function is
a group of tasks and systems united by a common purpose that commanders use to accomplish missions
and training objectives. Warfighting function capabilities are not confined to any domain, and they typically
include capabilities from all domains. Each warfighting function complements and reinforces the other
functions. Their integration and synchronization generate the combat power available for commanders to
execute operations and accomplish missions assigned by higher echelons.
2-2. Warfighting functions are not branch specific. Many capabilities that contribute to one warfighting
function also contribute to others, often simultaneously. For example, an aviation unit conducting a
reconnaissance mission may simultaneously contribute to the command and control, intelligence, and fires
warfighting functions. To ensure synchronization across warfighting functions, commanders at all echelons
focus on the combined arms employment of specific capabilities in terms of task and purpose over time rather
than the warfighting function of the capability.
Note. Although some branches, functional areas, staff sections, and types of units have a role or
purpose that aligns with a specific warfighting function, all formations must account for each
warfighting function.
2-3. The tasks associated with each warfighting function help establish responsibilities for doctrine,
capability modernization, and leader development in the institutional force. However, Army forces take a
flexible approach during operations and synchronize tasks based on the situation. The purpose for which
Army forces use a capability determines its associated warfighting function in an operational context.

COMMAND AND CONTROL
2-4. The primary purpose of command and control is to assist commanders in integrating and synchronizing
the other warfighting functions effectively at each echelon, applying combat power to achieve objectives,
and applying combat power to accomplish missions. The command and control warfighting function is the
related tasks and a system that enable commanders to exercise authority and direction to accomplish
missions.
2-5. Command and control synchronize the systems and capabilities that comprise the other warfighting
functions. Strategy, operational art, planning, operational approaches, operational frameworks, risk
assessment, and decision making are all part of command and control. Command and control reflect leader
action and how Army forces achieve unity of effort and unity of purpose during operations. Commanders,
assisted by their staffs, integrate numerous processes and activities within their headquarters and across the
force through the command and control warfighting function. These tasks are—
• Command forces.
• Control operations.
• Conduct the operations process.
• Employ the command and control system.
2-6. The command and control system includes people, processes, networks, and command posts. All
components of the system are critical in supporting effective decision making and the tempo required to
defeat enemy forces. The command and control system supports information advantage by developing
situational understanding, decision making, and operating networks.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

17

Chapter 2

2-7. Mission command helps commanders seize operational initiative by creating and exploiting
opportunities within the commander’s intent. Mission command is the Army’s approach to command and
control that empowers subordinate decision making and decentralized execution appropriate to the situation
(ADP 6-0). Mission command supports the Army’s operational concept of multidomain operations and its
emphasis on seizing, retaining, and exploiting the initiative. Seizing initiative requires subordinates who seek
opportunities and commanders who accept risk for subordinates trying to meet their intent. Subordinate
decision making and decentralized execution appropriate to the situation help manage uncertainty and enable
necessary tempo at each echelon during operations. Retaining operational initiative requires sustained,
relentless pressure on enemy forces. Commanders maintain pressure by integrating and synchronizing the
warfighting functions to present enemy commanders with continuously changing combinations of combat
power at a tempo they cannot effectively counter. (See ADP 6-0 for more information on the command and
control warfighting function.)

MOVEMENT AND MANEUVER
2-8. The movement and maneuver warfighting function is the related tasks and systems that move and
employ forces to achieve a position of relative advantage with respect to the enemy. Movement is
necessary to echelon and position the force as a whole or in part when maneuvering. Maneuver directly gains
or exploits positions of relative advantage. Direct fire and close combat are inherent in maneuver. The
movement and maneuver warfighting function includes these tasks:
• Move.
• Maneuver.
• Employ direct fires.
• Occupy an area.
• Conduct mobility and countermobility.
• Conduct reconnaissance and surveillance.
• Employ battlefield obscuration.
2-9. Movement is the positioning of combat power to establish the conditions for maneuver (ADP 3-90).
Army forces direct movement using movement techniques, using movement control formations, and
conducting battle drills to mitigate the risk of making contact with the enemy before maneuvering. Movement
includes force projection of forces into a theater of operations. However, movement does not include
administrative movements of personnel and materiel which fall under the sustainment warfighting function.
2-10. Maneuver is movement in conjunction with fires (ADP 3-90). Through maneuver, commanders can
concentrate forces at decisive points and times to achieve surprise, generate lethal and nonlethal effects, and
gain operational initiative over enemy forces while protecting their own forces. Preserving combat power is
a significant component of maneuver decisions. Effective maneuver requires close coordination of fires and
movement. Both tactical and operational maneuver requires sustainment support. (See ADP 3-90 for more
information on movement and maneuver.)

INTELLIGENCE
2-11. Intelligence drives operations. The intelligence warfighting function is the related tasks and systems
that facilitate understanding the enemy, terrain, weather, civil considerations, and other significant
aspects of the operational environment. The intelligence warfighting function synchronizes information
collection with primary tactical tasks of reconnaissance, surveillance, security, and intelligence operations.
Other significant aspects of a given operational environment include threats, adversaries, and operational
variables, which vary with the nature of operations.
2-12. Intelligence is driven by commanders, and it involves conducting operations to develop the situation
and analyzing information from all sources. The Army executes intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance through operations and intelligence processes, with emphasis on information collection,
analysis, and the production of intelligence products. The intelligence warfighting function provides
commanders and staffs with observations about the threat and relevant aspects of an operational environment
through collection resulting in data that they process and exploit into useable information for analysis and
production. This results in intelligence. The intelligence warfighting function includes these tasks:

18

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Warfighting Functions and Combat Power

•
•
•
•

Provide intelligence support to force generation.
Provide support to situational understanding.
Conduct information collection.
Provide intelligence support to targeting.

2-13. Timely, accurate, relevant, and predictive intelligence enables decision making, optimal tempo, and
agility during operations. Due to the fog and friction of warfare, commanders must fight for intelligence and
share it with adjacent units and across all echelons. Intelligence supports information advantage by
developing an understanding of enemy forces and various populations in an operational environment to
enable decision making. (See ADP 2-0 for additional information on the intelligence warfighting function.)

FIRES
2-14. The fires warfighting function is the related tasks and systems that create and converge effects in
all domains against the threat to enable actions across the range of military operations. These tasks and
systems create lethal and nonlethal effects delivered from both Army and joint forces as well as from other
unified action partners. Ground-based fires complement and reinforce firepower in the other domains and
enable the joint force.
2-15. Commanders must execute and integrate fires with the other warfighting functions to create effects and
achieve the desired end state. Commanders and staffs must expect and account for collateral effects of fires
within one domain impacting capabilities in other domains. Commanders and staffs must anticipate planning
timelines associated with requesting, shifting, and lifting multidomain effects such as space and cyberspace
from higher Army echelons or from joint forces. Fires tasks are those necessary actions that must be
conducted to create effects in all domains. The tasks of the fires warfighting function are—
• Execute fires across the five domains employing—
▪ Surface-to-surface fires.
▪ Air-to-surface fires.
▪ Surface-to-air fires.
▪ Cyberspace operations and electromagnetic warfare.
▪ Space operations.
▪ Multinational fires.
▪ Special operations.
• Integrate Army, multinational, and joint fires through—
▪ Targeting.
▪ Operations process.
▪ Fire support planning.
▪ Airspace planning and management.
▪ Electromagnetic spectrum management.
▪ Multinational integration.
▪ Rehearsals.
▪ Air and missile defense planning and integration.
(See ADP 3-19 for additional information on the fires warfighting function.)

PROTECTION
2-16. Protection encompasses everything that makes Army forces hard to detect and destroy. The protection
warfighting function is the related tasks, systems, and methods that prevent or mitigate detection,
threat effects, and hazards to preserve the force, deny the enemy freedom of action, and enable
commanders to apply combat power. The protection warfighting function tasks are incorporated into the
operations process in a comprehensive, integrated, layered, and redundant approach to minimize the
vulnerabilities of the force.
2-17. Protection activities endure in ways that differentiate them from defensive and specific security
operations. While a unit defends for a specific purpose over time, and a formation provides security in a
manner that maintains freedom of action, protection is persistent and serves one purpose—the preservation
of friendly forces. As they develop their scheme of protection, commanders understand threats and hazards

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

19

Chapter 2

in an operational environment, including threats from space, cyberspace, and outside their assigned area of
operations.
2-18. Prioritizing protection assets is situationally dependent and resource informed. Protection capabilities
integration aims to balance protection with the freedom of action throughout the duration of military
operations. Commanders balance their protection efforts with the need for tempo and for resourcing the main
effort. They often assume risk in potentially vulnerable operations or areas, but these operations or areas are
likely low enemy priorities for targeting or attack. Protection is as much about how units conduct operations
as it is the employment of specific capabilities designed to provide protection. It is an outcome that results
from a variety of tasks, tactics, techniques, and procedures.
2-19. Since protection encompasses everything that makes Army forces hard to destroy, it includes many
tasks. Protection can be effectively understood as requirements to manage risk and to protect capabilities,
areas, and information. The protection warfighting function tasks include—
• Conduct survivability operations.
• Provide force health protection.
• Conduct CBRN operations.
• Provide explosive ordnance disposal support.
• Coordinate air and missile defense support.
• Conduct personnel recovery.
• Conduct detention operations.
• Conduct risk management.
• Implement physical security procedures.
• Apply antiterrorism measures.
• Conduct police operations.
• Conduct populace and resources control.
• Conduct area security.
• Conduct cybersecurity and defense.
• Conduct electromagnetic protection.
• Implement operations security.
(See ADP 3-37 for more information on the protection warfighting function.)

SUSTAINMENT
2-20. Sustainment enables the depth and duration of Army operations. The sustainment warfighting
function is the related tasks and systems that provide support and services to enable freedom of action,
extend operational reach, and prolong endurance. Successful sustainment integration and synchronization
increases the number of options available to the commander. The sustainment warfighting function consists
of four elements:
• Logistics.
• Financial management.
• Personnel services.
• Health service support.
2-21. The principles of sustainment apply in any context and reflect the fundamental characteristics necessary
for victory against a peer threat able to effectively contest the joint force in all domains. The principles of
sustainment and the principles of logistics are the same. They are—
• Integration.
• Anticipation.
• Responsiveness.
• Simplicity.
• Economy.
• Survivability.
• Continuity.
• Improvisation.

20

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Warfighting Functions and Combat Power

(See ADP 4-0 and FM 4-0 for additional information on the sustainment warfighting function.)

COMBAT POWER
2-22. Commanders and their staffs at all echelons employ the art and the science of tactics. The art generally
is in the purview of commanders and select staff members whereas the science is everyone’s responsibility.
Each branch, functional area, or staff section is the master of specific knowledge and the underlying science
based upon its training, experience, and focus. Members of a staff must be ready to provide subject matter
expertise on all aspects of their specialties. This specialized knowledge on its own, however, is not enough.
Large-scale combat operations demand military professionals be more than just experts in their specialties
and branches. It requires grounding in the doctrine about combined arms application of combat power.
Leaders must understand their unit’s specialty, capability, and limitations; the will of their Soldiers; and the
best method to employ their specialized knowledge with other units in complementary and reinforcing ways.
2-23. Military operations executed in the land domain require the continuous generation and application of
combat power. Combat power is the total means of destructive and disruptive force that a military
unit/formation can apply against an enemy at a given time (JP 3-0). Army forces generate combat power by
integrating the systems and tasks of the warfighting functions, and then they use command and control to
synchronize its application against enemy forces at decisive places and times or against combinations of
objectives across multiple domains.
2-24. Combat power represents the measurable military potential combined with the intangible advantages
of an organization. It is viewed in relation to adversary or enemy forces, and it is variable in context. Combat
power is based upon a detailed analysis of the underlying science as it applies to the specific operational
variables of an area of operations and the mission. The science of combat power largely defines what is
possible during operations. It can also provide a way for echelons to divide tasks when resources and time
are limited and provide a way to avoid unnecessarily duplicating effort that wastes critical resources. At all
echelons, commanders balance the ability to mass effects with the need to deploy and sustain the units that
produce those effects. At higher echelons, commanders also balance this with the need to employ capabilities
and effects that they do not directly control and that are not necessarily deployed in the operational area.
2-25. The complementary and reinforcing effects that result from synchronized operations yield powerful
blows that overwhelm enemy forces and create friendly momentum. A combination of five dynamics
determines the force of these blows. Each dynamic represents a variable within a formation that changes
during operations as circumstances changes. Enemy action, logistical challenges, weather, and fatigue all
tend to degrade one or more dynamics during combat. The dynamics of combat power are—
• Leadership.
• Firepower.
• Information.
• Mobility.
• Survivability.
(See FM 3-0 for a detailed discussion of each combat power dynamic.)
2-26. Generating and maintaining combat power throughout an operation is essential. Factors that contribute
to generating and maintaining combat power include—
• The availability of reserves.
• The ability to rotate combat forces out of close operations prior to culmination, network viability,
and access to cyberspace and space capabilities.
• Access to joint support.
Commanders balance the ability to mass lethal and nonlethal effects with the need to employ, protect, and
sustain the units that produce those effects. They allocate combat power to the main effort and supporting
efforts of an operation to defeat enemy forces, seize objectives, and consolidate gains. (See Figure 2-1 on
page 22 for an illustration of generating combat power.)

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

21

Chapter 2

Figure 2-1. Generating combat power

RELATIVE COMBAT POWER ANALYSIS
2-27. Analyzing relative combat power requires measuring both defined performance parameters and
judgment. Relative combat power analysis is not solely a mathematical computation. It is an estimate
incorporating both objective and subjective factors. It is also greater than an assessment of opposing
formations. It involves assessing tangible factors (such as equipment, weapon systems, units, and
capabilities) and intangible factors (such as morale and training levels) of opposing forces. It also considers
the mission variables that directly or indirectly affect the potential outcome of an operation. At higher
echelons, or in operations short of large-scale combat, it may include relevant operational variables as well.
Regardless of echelon, planners begin their analysis by comparing units two echelons lower than their
echelon. For example, field army planners having multiple corps assigned would compare divisions. Brigade
planners would compare companies.
2-28. Analyzing relative combat power supports calculation of force ratios and comparison of strengths and
weaknesses. This analysis allows commanders and their staffs to gain insight into the types of operations
possible for both friendly and enemy forces, determine friendly and enemy vulnerabilities, determine any
additional resources required to execute the assigned mission, and identify possible ways to allocate existing
resources.

ORGANIZING COMBAT POWER
2-29. Commanders consider many factors when organizing combat power. These factors include force
tailoring, task-organizing, and mutual support. Equally important for commander consideration is
reconstitution.

Force Tailoring
2-30. Commanders tailor forces for specific situations. Force tailoring is the process of determining the
right mix of forces and the sequence of their deployment in support of a joint force commander. It
involves selecting the right force structure for a joint operation from available units within a combatant

22

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Warfighting Functions and Combat Power

command or from Service-retained forces. Commanders then sequence forces into the area of operations as
part of force projection. JFCs request and receive forces for each campaign or operational phase, adjusting
the quantity of Service component forces to match the weight of effort. Army Service component
commanders tailor forces to meet land force requirements as determined by JFCs. Army Service component
commanders also recommend forces and a deployment sequence to meet those requirements. Force tailoring
is continuous.

Task Organization
2-31. Commanders task-organize units for effective combined arms operations. Task-organizing is the act
of designing a force, support staff, or sustainment package of specific size and composition to meet a
unique task or mission. Characteristics to examine when task-organizing a force include, but are not limited
to, the mission, training, experience, unit capabilities, sustainability, the operational environment, and the
enemy threat. Task-organizing includes allocating assets to subordinate commanders and establishing their
command and support relationships. This occurs within tailored force packages as commanders organize
subordinate units for specific missions and employ doctrinal command and support relationships. As taskorganizing continues, commanders reorganize units for subsequent missions. The ability of Army forces to
task-organize reflects their agility, and it requires practice. It lets commanders configure their units to best
use available resources and match unit capabilities with assigned tasks. The ability of sustainment forces to
tailor and task-organize ensures commanders have freedom of action to change with mission requirements.

Mutual Support
2-32. Commanders consider mutual support when task-organizing forces, assigning areas of operations, and
positioning units. Mutual support is that support which units render each other throughout joint operations,
because of their assigned tasks, their position relative to each other and to the enemy, or their inherent
capabilities (JP 3-31). Understanding mutual support and the time to accept risk during operations are
fundamental to good tactics. Mutual support is a planning consideration related to force disposition, not a
command relationship. Mutual support has two aspects—supporting range and supporting distance. When
friendly forces are static, supporting range equals supporting distance.
2-33. Supporting range is the distance one unit may be geographically separated from a second unit yet
remain within the maximum range of the second unit’s weapons systems. It depends on available
weapons systems and is normally the maximum range of the supporting unit’s indirect fire weapons. For
small units such as squads, sections, and platoons, it is the distance between two units that their direct fires
can cover effectively. Visibility may limit the supporting range. If one unit cannot effectively or safely fire
to support another, the first may not be in supporting range even though its weapons can shoot that far.
2-34. Units may not be within supporting range of each other, but they may be able to provide mutual support
through maneuver. Supporting distance is the distance between two units that can be traveled in time for
one to come to the aid of the other and prevent its defeat by an enemy or ensure it regains control of a
stability or defense support of civil authorities situation. These factors affect supporting distance:
• Terrain and mobility.
• Distance.
• Enemy capabilities.
• Friendly capabilities.
• Reaction time.
2-35. The capabilities of supported and supporting units affect supporting distance. Units may be within
supporting distance, but if the supported unit cannot communicate with the supporting unit, the supporting
unit may not be able to affect the operation’s outcome. In such cases, the units are not within supporting
distance regardless of their proximity to each other. If the units share a common operational picture, relative
proximity may be less important than both units’ abilities to coordinate their maneuver and fires. To exploit
the advantage of supporting distance, units synchronize maneuver and fires more effectively than enemy
forces do. Otherwise, enemy forces may be able to defeat both units in detail.
2-36. Army forces request joint capabilities and integrate with allied and partner units to mitigate the risk of
operating at the limits of mutual support. For example, security force assistance brigades and Army special

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

23

Chapter 2

operations forces conduct security force assistance with indigenous forces. This cooperation improves the
cohesion of multinational operations and creates opportunities for commanders by multiplying the
effectiveness of available combat power.

Reconstitution
2-37. Commanders also consider reconstitution when organizing combat power. During large-scale combat
operations, they should expect significant losses to personnel, supplies, and equipment. Commanders must
plan and implement reconstitution operations to restore attrited units’ combat effectiveness as quickly as
possible to maintain tempo and avoid culmination.
2-38. Reconstitution consists of two elements—reorganization and regeneration. Reorganization is the
expedient cross-leveling of internal resources within an attrited unit in place to restore necessary combat
effectiveness and maintain endurance. Regeneration is the intentional restoration of a unit’s combat power.
Such restoration requires time and resource intensive operations which include equipment repairs and
replacements, supply replenishment, mission-essential training, and personnel replacements in accordance
with theater commander guidance. (See ATP 3-94.4 for more on reconstitution.)

24

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Chapter 3

The Army’s Operational Concept
This chapter discusses the Army’s operational concept of multidomain operations. The
chapter begins by explaining how multidomain operations create relative advantages
for Army forces. Next, the chapter describes the tenants and imperatives, followed by
a description of the strategic and operational frameworks in which multidomain
operations occur in an operational environment. The chapter ends by describing the
challenges multidomain operations address.

MULTIDOMAIN OPERATIONS
3-1. The Army contributes multidomain operations to the joint force. Multidomain operations are the
combined arms employment of joint and Army capabilities to create and exploit relative advantages
to achieve objectives, defeat enemy forces, and consolidate gains on behalf of joint force commanders.
Employing Army and joint capabilities makes use of all available combat power from multiple domains to
accomplish the mission. During conflict, Army forces use multidomain operations to close with and destroy
enemy forces, defeat enemy formations, seize critical terrain, and control populations to deliver sustainable
political outcomes. In other contexts, Army forces use multidomain operations to demonstrate readiness for
conflict, deterring adversaries while assuring allies and partners.
3-2. Almost all operations are inherently joint, and most operations occur in a coalition or alliance effort.
Joint and multinational capabilities enable Army forces to achieve objectives, and Army capabilities enable
joint and multinational forces to achieve objectives. To generate complementary and reinforcing effects
necessary to create and exploit relative advantages, leaders must understand the interdependencies among
their own assigned capabilities and the capabilities provided by others. Army forces employ joint and
combined capabilities to the degree they are available. However, because peer threats can contest the joint
force in all domains, Army forces must stay prepared to conduct operations when some or all joint capabilities
cannot support mission accomplishment. Army forces must also account for threat capabilities from domains
other than land and often outside their assigned areas.
3-3. Multidomain operations seek to fracture the coherence of threat operational approaches. They first break
up interdependent enemy systems and formations. They then exploit opportunities this disruption provides
to defeat enemy forces in detail. Army forces therefore require timely, accurate, relevant, and predictive
intelligence to understand threat characteristics, capabilities, objectives, and courses of action. Intelligence
drives what combinations of defeat mechanisms that commanders pursue as they employ the capabilities of
their forces in space and time against the enemy.

COMBINED ARMS
3-4. Leaders combine arms in complementary and reinforcing ways to protect capabilities and amplify their
effects. Combined arms is the synchronized and simultaneous application of arms to achieve an effect
greater than if each element was used separately or sequentially. Confronted with a constantly changing
situation, leaders create new combinations of capabilities, methods, and effects to pose new dilemmas for
adversaries. The combined arms approach to operations during competition, crisis, and armed conflict is
foundational to exploiting capabilities from all domains and their dimensions.
3-5. Complementary capabilities compensate for the vulnerabilities of one system or organization with the
capabilities of a different one. Infantry protects tanks from enemy infantry and antitank systems, while tanks
provide mobile protected firepower for the infantry. Ground maneuver can make enemy forces displace and
become vulnerable to joint fires, while joint fires can disrupt enemy reserves and command and control to
enable operations on the ground. Cyberspace, space capabilities, and electromagnetic warfare can prevent
enemy forces from detecting and communicating the location of friendly land-based fires capabilities. Army
fires capabilities can destroy enemy ground-based cyberspace nodes and electromagnetic warfare platforms
to protect friendly communications.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

25

Chapter 3

3-6. Reinforcing capabilities combine similar systems or capabilities to amplify the overall effects a
formation brings to bear in a particular context. During urban operations, for example, infantry, aviation, and
armor units closely coordinating can reinforce protection, maneuver, and direct fire capabilities of each unit
type while creating cascading dilemmas for enemy forces. Close air support, air interdiction, and naval
surface fire support can reinforce Army artillery, greatly increasing both the mass and range of fires available
to a commander. Space and cyberspace capabilities can reinforce a brigade combat team’s ground-based
jamming effort by simultaneously disrupting enemy communications and identifying enemy systems
disrupting friendly systems. Military information support operations can amplify the effects of physical
isolation on an enemy echelon, making it more vulnerable to friendly force exploitation.
3-7. The combined arms approach includes using different methods and types of forces. Army operations
often combine conventional and irregular warfare and employ conventional forces, special operations forces,
and unified action partners in complementary and reinforcing ways. The organic composition, training, and
task organization of Army units set conditions for effective combined arms. Throughout operations,
commanders assess an operational environment and adjust priorities, change task organization, and request
capabilities to create exploitable advantages, extend operational reach, preserve combat power, and
accomplish missions.

RELATIVE ADVANTAGES
3-8. When conducting operations against peer threats, small advantages can have significant impacts,
especially as commanders expand them over time. A relative advantage is a location or condition, in any
domain, relative to an adversary or enemy that provides an opportunity to progress towards or achieve
an objective. There are many ways to categorize and understand positions of relative advantage, but they
can typically be broken down into physical, information, and human advantages. Visualizing these
advantages heavily depends on each situation. When commanders achieve multiple relative advantages, they
are able to sense, understand, decide, and act faster than their enemies can thereby achieving decision
dominance. (See FM 3-0 for an expanded discussion on decision dominance.)
3-9. Physical advantages are most familiar to tactical forces, and they are typically the immediate goal of
most tactical operations. A physical advantage is a condition when a force holds the initiative in terms of
a combination of quantitative capabilities, qualitative capabilities, or geographical positioning. Finding
enemy forces, defeating them, and seizing land areas typically require the creation and exploitation of
multiple physical advantages, including occupation of key terrain, the physical isolation of enemy forces, and
the imposition of overwhelming fires. The exploitation of physical advantages reduces an enemy force’s
capability to fight and enables information and human advantages.
3-10. Physical and human advantages during operations are easier to achieve and more enduring when the
friendly force possesses multiple information advantages. An information advantage is a condition when a
force holds the initiative in terms of situational understanding, decision making, and relevant actor behavior
(ADP 3-13). Information advantages enable operations to have the desired impact on the human will of
enemy leaders, enemy forces, neutral populations, and friendly populations. This means the information is
protected and reliable. Protected information enables shared understanding and allows for sound decision
making throughout an operation.
3-11. Human advantages are individual and group characteristics that provide opportunities for friendly
forces. A human advantage is a condition whereby a force holds the initiative in terms of training,
morale, leadership, and will. Human advantages enable friendly morale and will, degrade enemy morale
and will, and influence popular support. Cultural factors predispose populations to opinions, beliefs, and
interpretations of military operations. Understanding these factors is essential in understanding an operational
environment, and it is critical in creating an operational approach that achieves the political aim.
3-12. Achieving relative advantages and pursuing decision dominance requires action—waiting for perfect
friendly advantages increases risk to maintaining the operational initiative. Operational initiative is the
setting of tempo and terms of action throughout an operation. Army forces seize, retain, and exploit
operational initiative by causing enemy forces to respond to friendly actions. By presenting an enemy force
with multiple dilemmas in different domains, commanders make that enemy force react continuously until
driven into an untenable position. Exploiting operational initiative pressures enemy commanders to abandon
their preferred options, react to friendly actions, and make mistakes. As enemy forces make mistakes or

26

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

The Army’s Operational Concept

weaken, friendly forces seize opportunities that create new relative advantages and set the conditions to
dominate the enemy. The tenets and imperatives link the core principle of combined arms with the
employment of combat power in multiple domains to create and exploit these advantages.

TENETS
3-13. The tenets of multidomain operations are desirable attributes to be incorporated into all Army plans
and operations. Commanders use these tenets to inform and assess courses of action throughout the operations
process. Success depends on the ability of Army forces to conduct operations with—
• Agility.
• Convergence.
• Endurance.
• Depth.
Agility is critical to protection, and it enables speed during large-scale combat operations. Enemy forces with
numerical and firepower advantages demand that Army forces avoid becoming lucrative targets.
Convergence enables the creation of opportunities against evenly matched enemy forces that are adaptive
and resilient to attacks against a single decisive point. Army forces achieve convergence with Army and joint
capabilities that achieve complementary and reinforcing effects, while preserving combat power to maintain
options for the JFC. Opportunities created by convergence require exploitation through endurance and depth.
Endurance allows Army forces to absorb the enemy’s attacks and sustain operations over the time and space
necessary to accomplish the mission. Depth applies combat power throughout the enemy’s formations, all
echelons, and operational environment, securing successive tactical and operational objectives for the joint
force.

AGILITY
3-14. In operational environments characterized by friction, uncertainty, violence, and change, the ability to
act faster than the enemy is critical for success. Agility is the ability to move forces and adjust their
dispositions and activities more rapidly than the enemy. While initiative implies a bias for action, agility
enables the action to occur before enemy forces can effectively react. Agility is about transitions. It requires
leaders to anticipate needs or opportunities to change, and it requires trained formations be able to change
direction or focus as quickly as the situation necessitates. Agile forces fight the enemy and not the plan. They
organize for purpose as necessary. By acting faster than the situation deteriorates, commanders can change
the dynamics of a crisis and restore favorable conditions. Leaders maintain agility by controlling tempo
during armed conflict.

CONVERGENCE
3-15. Peer threats employ adaptable and durable capabilities. Their formations can cover large geographic
areas and multiple domains. They cannot be easily defeated in a single, decisive effort. Success requires
Army forces to sustain attacks against multiple decisive points over time through convergence. Convergence
is an outcome created by the concerted employment of capabilities against combinations of decisive
points in any domain to create effects against a system, formation, or decision maker, or in a specific
geographic area. Senior Army tactical echelons drive convergence from the top down. Senior Army tactical
echelons are informed by the larger land tactical situation, and they have access to and can direct
multinational, joint, and Army capabilities.
3-16. Convergence involves integrating Army and joint capabilities at the most effective echelon and
synchronizing their employment against decisive points to create effects that friendly forces can exploit
through maneuver. Convergence employs mass at multiple locations in different domains in an economical
way that avoids confronting enemy strengths head on. Commanders choose combinations of decisive points
against which to mass effects, based on what most enables the enemy’s preferred tactical or operational
approach. Commanders visualize decisive points across multiple domains and dimensions. Categories of
decisive points include—
• Functions (including command and control, intelligence, protection, fires, maneuver, and
sustainment).
• Key terrain or formations (including position areas for artillery, airfields, and troop concentrations).

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

27

Chapter 3

•
•

Key events (including gap crossings, breaches, counterfires, and resupply).
Intangible factors (including morale, will to fight, cohesion, and trust).

3-17. Convergence leaves enemy forces with more problems than options. No matter how commanders
employ their available combat power, some part of their force’s capability will be degraded. Attacking enemy
command and control systems as part of convergence may also have a paralyzing impact on enemy
commanders’ abilities to make decisions and communicate them to their units. An enemy force incapable of
effectively adapting during combat creates a major advantage for Army forces.
3-18. Units may have to adapt their approach multiple times before achieving convergence. Leaders assess
when and if their operations have produced the desired effect, and they must remain ready to exploit rapidly
when they are successful. Because enemy forces adapt, the window of opportunity is temporary.
Commanders and staffs continuously assess the situation and plan branches and sequels to preempt the enemy
force’s reaction.
3-19. Generally, land component commands and corps set conditions for convergence by defeating an
enemy’s integrated fires complex and integrated air defense complex. Land component commands and corps
must also achieve convergence to attrit enemy maneuver forces so subordinate formations can combine
favorable force ratios with intangible advantages that enable success. Divisions and lower echelon units take
advantage of the resulting freedom of maneuver to conduct combined arms operations that achieve their
purpose in close combat. Divisions and corps expand the disintegration of enemy forces by employing the
tactics of exploitation and pursuit to finish the defeat of enemy maneuver forces in detail and to strengthen
the control of land areas.

ENDURANCE
3-20. Convergence plays a key role in creating positions of relative advantage and the effective employment
of combat power. However, to effectively exploit the advantages that convergence creates, leaders ensure
they plan and coordinate operations in ways that maintain the endurance required to follow through and
accomplish the mission. Endurance is the ability to persevere over time throughout the depth of an
operational environment. Endurance enhances the ability to project combat power and extends operational
reach. Endurance is about sustaining and protecting the force to preserve combat power while continuing
operations for as long as is necessary to achieve the desired outcome.

DEPTH
3-21. While the focus of endurance is on friendly combat power, the focus of depth is on enemy locations
and dispositions across all domains. Depth is the extension of operations in time, space, or purpose to
achieve definitive results. Commanders seek to engage enemy forces throughout the depth of their forces
while denying the enemy sanctuary, mutual support, and the ability to focus on one problem at a time.
Commanders likewise moderate their tempo to ensure they have the endurance to reach the physical depth
of their assigned objectives.

IMPERATIVES
3-22. Imperatives are actions Army forces must take to defeat peer enemy forces and succeed in the
multidomain environment. They are based on the principles of war, but they are specific to the contemporary
battlefield. Imperatives include—
• See yourself, see the enemy, and understand the operational environment.
• Protect against constant observation and all forms of enemy contact.
• Own the electromagnetic spectrum.
• Create and exploit positions of physical, information, and human advantage.
• Make initial contact with sensors, unmanned systems, or the smallest element possible.
• Impose multiple dilemmas on the enemy.
• Anticipate, plan, and execute transitions.
• Designate, weight, and sustain the main effort.
• Consolidate gains continuously.
• Understand and manage the effects of operations on units and Soldiers.

28

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

The Army’s Operational Concept

Commanders develop their operations with the imperatives of multidomain operations in mind, which are
essential considerations for the planning, preparation, execution, and assessment of operations. (See FM 3-0
for a detailed description of the tenets and imperatives of multidomain operations.)

STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
3-23. The strategic framework primarily serves for those Army forces designated as a joint task force or joint
force land component command. The strategic framework accounts for factors in the strategic environment
and the connection of strategic capabilities to operational- and tactical-level operations. (See FM 3-0 for an
expanded discussion on the strategic framework.) The strategic framework includes four areas:
• Strategic support area.
• Joint security area.
• Extended deep area.
• Assigned operational area.

OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK
3-24. Leaders organize their forces and operational concept within the broader context of strategic plans
while using the operational framework. The operational framework is a cognitive tool used to assist
commanders and staffs in clearly visualizing and describing the application of combat power in time,
space, purpose, and resources in the concept of operations. The operational framework takes into
consideration the commander’s assessment of an operational environment, including domains and
dimensions. The way commanders organize forces within their assigned area of operations is the basis of the
operational framework.
3-25. Within the area of operations, each subordinate echelon nests its operational framework with that of its
higher echelon headquarters. Commanders can use any model they find useful, but they do not diverge from
that of the higher headquarters. They may create new models to fit the circumstances, but they apply the most
common models according to doctrine to facilitate shared understanding. (See FM 3-0 for an expanded
discussion on the operational framework.) Commonly used models to build an operational framework are—
• Assigned areas.
• Deep, close, and rear operations.
• Main effort, supporting effort, and reserve.

ASSIGNED AREAS
3-26. The JFC assigns land forces an operational area within a joint organizational construct. The land
component or ARFOR commander subdivides the area of operations into subordinate-assigned areas to best
support the desired scheme of maneuver. The responsibility to consider the conduct of operations across
multiple domains does not automatically include authority to synchronize activities in unassigned physical
domains. An assigned area that is too large for a unit to effectively control increased risk allows sanctuaries
for enemy forces and limits joint flexibility. A higher headquarters remains responsible for any area not
assigned to a subordinate unit. Within their assigned area, units use control measures to assign
responsibilities, prevent fratricide, facilitate command and control, coordinate fires, control maneuver, and
organize operations. To facilitate this integration and synchronization, commanders designate targeting
priorities, effects, and timing within their assigned areas. There are three types of assigned areas that a land
component or ARFOR commander uses:
• Area of operations.
• Zone.
• Sector.
3-27. An area of operations is an operational area defined by a commander for the land or maritime force
commander to accomplish their missions and protect their forces (JP 3-0). Forward, rear, and lateral
boundaries define an area of operations. Within their area of operations, units integrate assigned and
supporting capabilities, synchronize warfighting functions, and generate combat power against enemy forces
to accomplish the mission. Important area of operations activities include—
• Terrain management.
• Information collection, integration, and synchronization.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

29

Chapter 3

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Civil affairs operations.
Movement control.
Clearance of fires.
Security.
Personnel recovery.
Airspace management.
Minimum-essential stability operations tasks.
Note. By definition, a land area of operations does not include a volume of airspace to control.
Airspace control authorities delegate airspace control to Army commanders based on the situation.
All commanders must be prepared to enable or coordinate airspace management. (See JP 3-52 and
FM 3-52 for more information on airspace control.)

3-28. A zone is an operational area assigned to a unit in the offense that only has rear and lateral
boundaries. The nonbounded side of a zone is open towards enemy forces. A higher echelon headquarters
uses fire support coordination and maneuver control measures such as a limit of advance and a coordinated
fire line to synchronize its deep operations with those of a subordinate unit. Zones allow higher echelon
headquarters to adjust deep operations without having to change unit boundaries. This gives greater flexibility
to the higher echelon headquarters for controlling deep operations, allowing subordinate units to focus on
close and rear operations. Units treat everything behind the friendly forward line of troops as an area of
operations with the associated nine responsibilities. Units can subdivide a zone into subordinate areas of
operations, zones, or sectors.
3-29. A sector is an operational area assigned to a unit in the defense that has rear and lateral
boundaries and interlocking fires. The nonbounded side of a sector is open towards enemy forces. A higher
echelon headquarters uses fire support coordination and maneuver control measures such as battle positions
and trigger lines to synchronize subordinate units. Higher echelon headquarters are responsible to
synchronize combat power forward of the main battle and security areas or coordinated fire line. Higher
echelon headquarters use sectors to synchronize and coordinate subordinate force engagement areas and
allow for mutually supporting fields of fire, which do not require deconfliction between adjacent units. Units
treat everything behind the friendly forward line of troops as an area of operations with the associated nine
responsibilities. Units can subdivide a sector into subordinate areas of operations, zones, or sectors.

Area of Influence
3-30. An area of influence is an area inclusive of and extending beyond an operational area wherein a
commander is capable of direct influence by maneuver, fire support, and information normally under the
commander’s command or control (JP 3-0). This area is bounded by the ranges of the commander’s assigned
maneuver and fire support units. A commander’s area of influence is normally larger than that commander’s
assigned area of operations, but it is smaller than the commander’s area of interest.

Area of Interest
3-31. An area of interest is that area of concern to the commander, including the area of influence, areas
adjacent to it, and extending into enemy territory (JP 3-0). This area also includes areas occupied by enemy
forces who could jeopardize the accomplishment of the mission. An area of interest varies in size and shape
from operation to operation. It should include all enemy activities which might affect a friendly force
throughout the duration of an operation. An area of interest will usually surround an area of operations,
extending forward and to the flanks of that area of operations. Depending upon the operation, it may also
extend rearwards. During offensive operations, portions of the area of interest may become part of an area of
operations as friendly forces advance.

DEEP, CLOSE, AND REAR OPERATIONS
3-32. Within assigned areas, commanders organize their operations in terms of time, space, and purpose by
synchronizing deep, close, and rear operations. Commanders consider the physical, information, and human
dimensions of deep, close, and rear operations. The focus of operations in time, space, and purpose, not

30

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

The Army’s Operational Concept

necessarily their physical location, determines whether they are deep, close, or rear operations. Organizing
by time, space, and purpose helps commanders synchronize. Each echelon modifies existing graphic control
measures and creates new ones during the course of operations. Management of graphic control measures
allows commanders to create and exploit opportunities because they promote a common understanding of
the operational framework, simplify command and control, and facilitate subordinate echelons’ freedom of
action.
3-33. Divisions and above align their deep, close, and rear operations to corresponding areas on the ground.
This alignment facilitates command and control of forces spread over wide distances, which may or may not
be contiguous, whose physical locations do not correspond to the location and purpose of their effects.
Typically, divisions and corps assign command posts to enable control of these areas. For example, a division
may position an artillery battery in a position area for artillery located in the rear area, but it may employ its
fires in support of close operations. In this case, the rear command post might control the battery’s movement,
sustainment, and protection, but the division main headquarters controls its fire support priorities.
3-34. Deep operations are tactical actions against enemy forces, typically out of direct contact with
friendly forces, intended to shape future close operations and protect rear operations. At the operational
level, deep operations isolate current battles and influence the timing, location, and enemy forces involved
in future battles. At the tactical level, deep operations set favorable conditions for close combat and
subsequent engagements. Deep operations require detailed planning. Because of the relative scarcity of
resources with which to perform these activities, deep operations focus on the most dangerous enemy
capabilities and vulnerabilities to exploit in the future.
3-35. Close operations are tactical actions of subordinate maneuver forces and the forces providing
immediate support to them, whose purpose is to employ maneuver and fires to close with and destroy
enemy forces. At the operational level, close operations comprise the efforts of large tactical units—corps
and divisions—to win current battles by directly closing with and defeating enemy forces after setting
favorable terms to do so. At the tactical level, close operations comprise the efforts of smaller tactical units
to win current engagements through maneuver while physically in contact with the enemy forces they intend
to defeat. Each echelon focuses on setting conditions for subordinate unit success during close operations.
(See FM 3-90 for more information on deep and close operations.)
3-36. Rear operations are tactical actions behind major subordinate maneuver forces that facilitate
movement, extend operational reach, and maintain desired tempo. Rear operations typically include the
protection and security of support areas. A support area is the portion of the commander’s area of
operations that is designated to facilitate the positioning, employment, and protection of base
sustainment assets required to sustain, enable, and control operations. Support area operations are
tactical actions that secure lines of communications, bases, and base clusters that enable an echelon’s
sustainment and command and control. This includes continuity of sustainment and command and control.
Rear operations enable close and deep operations. At the operational level, rear operations sustain the current
fight and prepare for the next phase of the campaign or major operation. (See FM 3-0 for more information
on rear operations.)

MAIN EFFORT, SUPPORTING EFFORT, AND RESERVE
3-37. Units at each echelon designate main efforts, supporting efforts, and reserves. The tasks units assign
subordinates should align with the purpose of and support their higher echelon.
3-38. The main effort is a designated subordinate unit whose mission at a given point in time is most
critical to overall mission success. It is usually weighted with additional combat power. Typically,
commanders shift the main effort one or more times during execution. When commanders designate a unit
as the main effort, it receives priority of support and resources to maximize combat power. Commanders
establish clear priorities of support, and they shift resources and priorities to the main effort as circumstances
and the commander’s intent require.
3-39. A supporting effort is a designated subordinate unit with a mission that supports the success of
the main effort. Commanders resource supporting efforts with the minimum assets necessary to accomplish
the mission, accepting risk to weight the main effort. Supporting efforts conduct supporting attacks, economy
of force missions, and tactical deception tasks.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

31

Chapter 3

3-40. A reserve is that portion of a body of troops that is withheld from action at the beginning of an
engagement to be available for a decisive movement (ADP 3-90). A reserve is an uncommitted force, and
thus it does not normally have a full suite of combat multipliers available to it until it is committed. It is
normally the echelon’s main effort once committed. Commanders constitute a reserve and base the size of
the reserve on the level of uncertainty; more uncertainty requires a larger reserve. Commanders provide
priorities of planning for the reserve and position it where it can best support these priorities. Commanders
who commit their reserve form a new one.

CHALLENGES
3-41. Adversary methods focus on layered standoff, are integrated across all domains, use all instruments of
national power, and achieve effects in the physical, information, and human dimensions. These adversary
methods are designed to make military options for the United States both politically difficult and prohibitively
expensive. (See FM 3-0 for a detailed overview of threat challenges.) Examples of these challenges are—
• Subversive political and legal strategies through international organizations.
• Physical presence on the ground to buttress resource claims.
• Coercive economic practices against weaker countries.
• Supporting proxy forces.
• Spreading disinformation through social media platforms.
• Integrated air defense systems, integrated fires complexes, and global sensing networks.
3-42. At the operational level, there are two complementary fights: a joint fight enabled by Army formations
to defeat enemy integrated air defense systems and fires complexes, and a ground fight led by Army forces
and enabled by the joint force. Army surface-to-surface fires, counterair and missile capabilities, attack
aviation, ground maneuver capabilities, and command and control are critical to defeating the components
of an enemy’s antiaccess and area denial approach. Defeating enemy capabilities and formations at the
operational level requires multiple lines of effort and attacks against combinations of decisive points to create
expanding relative advantages over time. As an enemy force’s antiaccess and area denial capabilities are
degraded, Army forces conduct operations on land to achieve JFC objectives.
3-43. At the tactical level, forward-postured Army forces defend critical terrain and infrastructure with allies
and partners against immediate enemy offensive action. Other Army forces conduct expeditionary offensive
operations against peer threats who have prepared deliberate defenses. Most enemies have significant
advantages at the outset of armed conflict. They often operate on shorter lines of communications from their
bases of support. They likely have greater familiarity with terrain, weather, local populations, and their
cultures. They also have combat power advantages in terms of numerical superiority and volume and range
of fires.
3-44. Enemy forces typically seek to fix and isolate reserves, troop concentrations and other suitable targets
with fires, maneuver, and CBRN contamination. Whenever possible, they infiltrate rear areas and attack
command posts and vulnerable units first. They also employ electronic warfare, cyberspace operations, and
disinformation to hinder communications and degrade friendly morale and cohesion. Understanding the
tactics of the most likely adversaries is essential for leaders at all echelons.

32

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Chapter 4

Army Campaign Support
This chapter discusses Army support to joint campaigning and the elements and
application of operational art. It discusses defeating enemy forces and concludes with
information on the defeat and stability mechanisms.

ARMY SUPPORT TO JOINT CAMPAIGNING
4-1. Effective campaigning is not possible unless operational-level objectives nest with strategic objectives.
Army forces plan, prepare, execute, and assess major operations in support of joint campaigns. These major
operations aim to achieve theater strategic and operational objectives, and they may occur during
competition, crisis, or armed conflict.

ROLE OF STRATEGY
4-2. The President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff provide strategic
direction to the military to safeguard and advance national interests. The President’s decisions drive the
Secretary of Defense’s strategic guidance, which the joint force operationalizes. The President and Secretary
of Defense generally communicate strategic direction to the armed forces through a body of documents
representing strategic guidance. Strategic guidance comes in the form of national strategies, presidential
directives, and strategic plans. These documents inform military strategies and joint campaigns. Military
strategy involves employing armed forces to secure policy objectives by the application or threat of force.
Successful strategies achieve political aims at the lowest possible cost in lives and resources. (See JP 1,
Volume 2, for more information on strategic direction and guidance.)
4-3. Army forces conduct major operations in support of joint campaigns and joint campaign plans that are
based on joint military strategy. A campaign is a series of related operations aimed at achieving strategic and
operational objectives within a given time and space (JP 5-0). A campaign plan is a joint operation plan for
a series of related major operations aimed at achieving strategic or operational objectives within a given time
and space (JP 5-0). Campaign plans can support global and enduring joint campaigns or discrete theater
specific campaigns. They may also be developed in response to an unforeseen crisis or in the event of war.
4-4. The theater army supports its assigned combatant command with the development and execution of
campaign plans. The theater army does this through military engagement, exercises, posturing of forces, and
supporting activities designed to support U.S. objectives, protect national interests, prevent armed conflict,
and set conditions for successful combat operations should deterrence fail. Theater armies may also conduct
campaigns as directed by the combatant commander.

ARRANGING OPERATIONS TO ACHIEVE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
4-5. The joint force normally will not achieve victory in a single decisive effort. Therefore, Army forces will
need to conduct successive operations to defeat enemy forces and achieve assigned theater objectives.
Commanders will have to choose and then arrange their operations in time and space to achieve their assigned
theater objectives. The proper arrangement of operations allows commanders to use all available resources
while retaining the flexibility to respond to the uncertainty and risk inherent in combat. Operational art helps
commanders and staffs determine the optimal arrangement of their forces and operations.

THE ELEMENTS OF OPERATIONAL ART
4-6. Operational art is the cognitive approach by commanders and staffs—supported by their skill,
knowledge, experience, creativity, and judgment—to develop strategies, campaigns, and operations to
organize and employ military forces by integrating ends, ways, and means (JP 3-0). It serves two main
functions:
• To ensure that military actions are aligned with and directly support strategy.
• To ensure that tactical actions occur under the most advantageous conditions possible.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

33

Chapter 4

4-7. Not all elements of operational art apply at all levels of warfare. During the planning and execution of
Army operations, commanders and staffs consider the elements of operational art as they assess the situation.
The elements of operational art, used in conjunction with the Army design methodology and the military
decision-making process, assist leaders with effectively arranging operations based on the overall objectives,
the forces involved, the defeat mechanisms, and the kind of approach envisioned. (See Table 4-1 for the
elements of operational art.)
Table 4-1. Elements of operational art
Operational art consists of these elements:
• End state and conditions.

• Phasing and transitions.

• Center of gravity.

• Culmination.

• Decisive points.

• Operational reach.

• Lines of operations and lines of effort.

• Basing.

• Tempo.

• Risk.

END STATE AND CONDITIONS
4-8. The end state is the set of required conditions that defines achievement of the commander’s objectives
(JP 3-0). Commanders include the end state in their planning guidance. A clearly defined end state promotes
unity of effort; facilitates integration, synchronization, and disciplined initiative; and helps mitigate risk.
4-9. Operations focus on achieving a military end state that supports a higher purpose. Army forces contribute
to diplomatic, information, and economic outcomes. Commanders consider each factor and explicitly
describe the end state and its conditions for every operation. Otherwise, missions lack purpose, and operations
lose focus. Successful commanders direct every operation toward a clearly defined, conclusive, and attainable
end state—the objective. Military operations require Army forces to consolidate gains to achieve a desired
political end state.
4-10. The desired end state may evolve as an operation progresses. Commanders continuously monitor
operations using formal and informal assessment methods. They monitor to assess their progress in achieving
an end state and to determine if they need to reframe their approach. An end state should anticipate future
operations and establish conditions for transitions.

CENTER OF GRAVITY
4-11. A center of gravity is the source of power that provides moral or physical strength, freedom of action,
or will to act (JP 5-0). A center of gravity is an analytical tool for planning operations. It provides a focal
point and identifies sources of strength and weakness. However, the concept of center of gravity is only
meaningful when considered in relation to other elements of operational design such as objectives, lines of
operation or effort, and military end state. (See JP 5-0 for more on operational design.) Because most enemy
forces represent adaptive, complex systems, they are likely to have multiple centers of gravity. Destroying
or capturing one center is unlikely to resolve most conflicts.
4-12. Centers of gravity are not limited to military forces. They are part of a dynamic perspective of an
operational environment, and they may change as an environment changes. Physical centers of gravity, such
as a capital city or military force, are tangible and typically easier to identify, assess, and account for than
moral centers of gravity. Physical centers of gravity can often be influenced solely by military means. In
contrast, moral centers of gravity are intangible and more difficult to influence. They can include a
charismatic leader, powerful ruling elite, or united population. Military means alone usually prove ineffective
when targeting moral centers of gravity. Affecting them requires the collective, integrated efforts of all
instruments of national power over time.

DECISIVE POINTS
4-13. A decisive point is key terrain, key event, critical factor, or function that, when acted upon, enables
commanders to gain a marked advantage over an enemy or contribute materially to achieving success
(JP 5-0). Decisive points help commanders select clear, conclusive, attainable objectives that directly
contribute to achieving an end state. Commanders visualize decisive points in each of the five domains and

34

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Army Campaign Support

three dimensions. Geographic decisive points can include port facilities, communications networks and
nodes, and bases of operation. Specific events and elements of an enemy force can be decisive points.
Examples of these events include commitment of the enemy reserve or enemy resupply efforts. Space and
cyberspace-enabled capabilities may also represent decisive points. Enemy morale could be a decisive point,
and the ability of enemy forces to communicate with their sources of support could also be a decisive point.
4-14. Decisive points apply to both operational and tactical levels when shaping the concept of operations.
Decisive points enable commanders to see where to seize, retain, or exploit an operational initiative.
Commanders identify decisive points that offer the greatest physical, temporal, or psychological advantage
against centers of gravity. Controlling decisive points is essential to mission accomplishment. Enemy control
of a decisive point may stall friendly momentum, force early culmination, or enable an enemy attack.

LINES OF OPERATIONS AND LINES OF EFFORT
4-15. Lines of operations and lines of effort link objectives to the end state physically and conceptually.
Commanders may describe an operation along lines of operations, lines of effort, or a combination of both.
A line of operations is a line that defines the directional orientation of a force in time and space in
relation to the enemy and links the force with its base of operations and objectives. Lines of operations
connect a series of decisive points that lead to control of a geographic or force-oriented objective. A line of
effort is a line that links multiple tasks using the logic of purpose to focus efforts toward establishing a
desired end state. Lines of effort are essential to long-term planning when positional references to an enemy
or adversary have less relevance. Commanders often employ a combination of lines of operations and lines
of effort because most operations require both the control of terrain and linkage of tasks to fully realize
assigned objectives and end state.
4-16. A force operates on interior and exterior lines. Interior lines are lines on which a force operates when
its operations diverge from a central point. Interior lines allow commanders to move quickly against
enemy forces along shorter lines of operation. Exterior lines are lines on which a force operates when its
operations converge on the enemy. Exterior lines allow commanders to concentrate forces against multiple
positions on the ground, thus presenting multiple dilemmas to the enemy.

TEMPO
4-17. Tempo is the relative speed and rhythm of military operations over time with respect to the
enemy. Controlling tempo helps commanders keep operational initiative during combat operations or rapidly
establish a sense of normalcy during humanitarian crises. During combat operations, commanders normally
seek to maintain a higher tempo than enemy forces do. A rapid tempo can overwhelm an enemy force’s
ability to counter friendly actions. During other contexts, commanders act quickly to control events and deny
enemy forces positions of relative advantage, particularly in the information and human dimensions.

PHASING AND TRANSITIONS
4-18. A phase is a planning and execution tool used to divide an operation in duration or activity. A
change in phase usually involves a change of mission, task organization, or rules of engagement. Phasing
helps in planning and controlling, and it may be indicated by time, distance, terrain, or an event.
4-19. Transitions mark a change of focus between phases or between the ongoing operation and execution of
a branch or sequel. Transitions normally occur whenever there is an abrupt change to an operational
environment, a threat, or friendly forces.

CULMINATION
4-20. Culmination relates to the force’s ability to generate and apply combat power. The culminating point
is the point at which a force no longer has the capability to continue its form of operations, offense or defense
(JP 5-0). Typically, culmination is caused by direct combat actions or lack of support. Planning to address
culmination is critical to success during large-scale combat operations.

OPERATIONAL REACH
4-21. Operational reach is the distance and duration across which a force can successfully employ military
capabilities (JP 3-0). It reflects the ability to achieve success through a well-conceived operational approach,

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

35

Chapter 4

and it is applicable to Army forces operating as part of the joint force. Operational reach is a tether; it is a
function of intelligence, protection, sustainment, endurance, and combat power relative to enemy forces. The
limit of a unit’s operational reach is its culminating point. Operational reach balances the natural tensions
among endurance, momentum, and depth. Commanders continually strive to extend operational reach. They
assess friendly and enemy force status and civil considerations, anticipate culmination, consolidate gains,
and plan operational pauses if necessary.
4-22. Protection is an important contributor to operational reach. Commanders anticipate how enemy actions
and environmental factors might disrupt operations, and then they determine the protection measures required
to maintain sufficient reach. Protection closely relates to endurance and momentum. It also contributes to the
commander’s ability to extend operations in time and space. Commanders can influence the degree to which
protection is achieved by how they prioritize and sequence operations, when they conduct them, and the
degree to which they can deceive enemy forces.

BASING
4-23. Lines of operation and operational reach are intimately linked with basing. A base is a locality from
which operations are projected or supported. Basing is a critical consideration when arranging operations at
any echelon. Basing directly supports or determines the joint and multinational force’s proximity to an
operational area; the force’s reach and endurance; the depth the force can achieve; and how quickly the force
can generate, apply, and reconstitute combat power.

RISK
4-24. Risk is the probability and severity of loss linked to hazards. Risk, uncertainty, and chance are inherent
in all military operations. Commanders delegate risk acceptance to subordinates through their commander’s
intent and other guidance. Leaders maintain a common operational picture with their counterparts in higher
and lower echelons, since any risk accepted at one echelon may impose additional risk at other echelons.
When commanders accept risk, they create opportunities to seize, retain, and exploit operational initiative
and achieve decisive results. Embracing risk as opportunity requires situational awareness and imagination
as well as audacity. Successful commanders assess, mitigate, and accept risk continuously throughout the
operations process.

THE APPLICATION OF OPERATIONAL ART
4-25. In applying operational art, Army commanders and their staffs use intellectual tools to help them
understand an operational environment and visualize and describe their approach to conducting an operation.
Their broadest application applies to long-term operations.
4-26. Operational art is not limited to a specific echelon or role, but it is primarily the focus of corps and
higher echelons. The application of operational art is not limited to a particular activity in the operations
process. Rather, multiple units at all echelons performing joint and Service roles in the scope of their assigned
missions contribute to operational art by arranging tactical actions in time, space, and purpose to pursue
strategic objectives. Operational art links the echelons above brigade to each other, and to the larger joint and
multinational forces, to ensure unity of effort. It is a core reason for why theater armies, field armies (when
constituted), and corps exist. It is fundamental to the planning, execution, and support of joint campaigns.
(See Figure 4-1 for a depiction of the scope of operational art.)

36

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Army Campaign Support

Figure 4-1. Scope of operational art
4-27. Commanders and their staffs apply operational art throughout all phases of the operations process.
Army commanders use the principles of joint operations and the elements of operational art to envision how
they establish conditions that accomplish missions and assigned objectives. For Army forces, operational art
is the pursuit of strategic objectives, in whole or in part, through the arrangement of tactical actions in time,
space, and purpose. Operational art applies to all types and aspects of operations.
4-28. The principles of joint operations are comprised of the traditional nine principles of war plus three joint
principles of operations (restraint, perseverance, and legitimacy). Together, the twelve principles of joint
operations represent important factors that affect the conduct of operations. The principles are broadly applied
considerations, and their relevance varies in each situation. They are not a checklist. Commanders generally
consider all twelve principles, but they rarely apply them the same way in every operation. The principles
summarize the characteristics of successful operations throughout history. Their greatest value lies in
educating military professionals. While considering the principles of joint operations, commanders determine
if or when to deviate from the principles based on the current situation. The principles of joint operations
are—
• Objective.
• Offensive.
• Mass.
• Economy of force.
• Maneuver.
• Unity of command.
• Security.
• Surprise.
• Simplicity.
• Restraint.
• Perseverance.
• Legitimacy.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

37

Chapter 4

(See JP 3-0 and FM 3-0 for a detailed discussion on the principles of joint operations.)
4-29. When applying operational art, commanders and staffs ensure a shared understanding of purpose. This
requires open, continuous collaboration between commanders at various echelons to define the problems and
conditions of an operational environment. Effective collaboration facilitates assessment and fosters critical
analysis.
4-30. Operational art encompasses all levels, from strategic direction to tactical actions. It requires creative
vision, broad experience, and a knowledge of capabilities, tactics, and techniques across multiple domains.
A concept of operations is a verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses what the
commander intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available resources (JP 5-0). Commanders
write their own concept of operations and staffs help refine it. This process helps ensure the commander and
members of the staff have a shared understanding for how an operation is supposed to unfold. Commanders
then position and maneuver forces to perform tasks that best achieve a desired end state.
4-31. It is through operational art that commanders translate their operational approach into a concept of
operations. The successful application of operational art relies heavily on the science of operations.
Considerations such as movement times, capability ranges, loiter times, consumption rates, available
supplies, combat power status, and electromagnetic spectrum management determine whether an operational
approach is feasible or not. An operational approach is a broad description of the mission, operational
concepts, tasks, and actions required to accomplish the mission (JP 5-0). The earlier details are integrated
into conceptual planning, the better.
4-32. During planning, commanders and their staffs use the Army design methodology to develop an
operational approach that informs detailed planning. The Army design methodology is a methodology for
applying critical and creative thinking to understand, visualize, and describe problems and approaches to
solving them (ADP 5-0). By applying the Army design methodology, commanders and staffs gain a shared
understanding of the environment, and they can define the problems preventing the desired end state. This
differs from mission analysis since the Army design methodology is not mission specific. These items assist
commanders and staffs using Army design methodology:
• The principles of joint operations and principles of war.
• The tenets and imperatives of multidomain operations.
• The elements of operational art.
• The defeat mechanisms.
• The stability mechanisms.
4-33. Application of the Army design methodology results in an operational approach. Many operational
approaches prove unhelpful for driving detailed planning because they fail to consider operational realities.
However, a good operational approach provides the basis for detailed planning, allows leaders to establish a
logical operational framework, and helps produce an executable order. The operational approach provides a
framework that relates tactical tasks to the desired end state. As detailed planning yields new information,
leaders reassess their operational approach—and the Army design methodology that informed it—and adjust
it accordingly to ensure relevancy. These actions continue throughout preparation and execution, and they
inform commanders’ decision making. When assessing operations, the logic of the operational approach
provides the basis for developing assessment criteria, including measures of performance and effectiveness.
(See Figure 4-2 for a graphic depiction of the commander’s visualization process to determine an operational
approach. See ADP 5-0 for more information on assessments.)

38

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Army Campaign Support

Figure 4-2. Commander’s visualization

DEFEATING ENEMY FORCES
4-34. Armed conflict implies the need to defeat enemy forces. Defeat is to render a force incapable of
achieving its objectives. During competition and crisis, Army forces render threats incapable of achieving
their objectives through contributions to integrated deterrence and by countering threat aggression. Defeat is
not a tactical mission task. However, it is usually the overall purpose of tactical operations during armed
conflict. Large enemy formations and their capabilities are complex, adaptive systems. Defeating them
requires attacking multiple decisive points. Lower echelons fighting against smaller formations with more
limited capabilities typically attack one decisive point during their operations.
4-35. When U.S. forces possess overwhelming advantages across all domains and dimensions, joint forces
can attack multiple elements of an enemy force simultaneously. Simultaneity disrupts the enemy’s command
and control system and can overwhelm an inferior force quickly. By definition, peer threats possess a scale
and quality of warfighting capability that is too extensive to attack all at once. When fighting a peer threat,
commanders identify portions of enemy formations and specific warfighting systems that are vulnerable to
defeat in detail. Defeat in detail is concentrating overwhelming combat power against separate parts of a
force rather than defeating the entire force at once (ADP 3-90). Defeating enemy forces in detail requires
leaders to understand the various parts of an enemy force and its vulnerabilities, then discern the best ways
to apply combat power against those vulnerabilities.

DEFEAT AND STABILITY MECHANISMS
4-36. Defeat and stability mechanisms complement each other. Both help commanders to visualize how to
employ their forces in multidomain operations. Defeat mechanisms relate to offensive and defensive
operations; stability mechanisms relate to stability operations, security, and consolidating gains in an area of
operations. All operations combine stability and defeat mechanisms to some degree. When considered
together during planning, they help to focus the commander and staff in framing complex problems and
developing potential solutions. Combinations of stability and defeat mechanisms can defeat threats, create
conditions for stabilization, and set conditions to transition security and stability operations to other partners,
the host nation, or other actors to achieve U.S. government objectives.
4-37. Commanders and staffs translate these mechanisms and desired effects into clearly defined tasks for
subordinates arranged in time, space, and purpose to achieve the desired end state and objectives. During
combat operations, most tasks will focus on defeating enemy forces, while initial stability tasks will focus on
the minimum-essential tasks and limited stability operations to establish conditions for future operations as
combat ends.

DEFEAT MECHANISMS
4-38. A defeat mechanism is a method through which friendly forces accomplish their mission against
enemy opposition. Army forces at all echelons use combinations of four defeat mechanisms: destroy,
dislocate, isolate, and disintegrate. Applying more than one defeat mechanism simultaneously produces
complementary and reinforcing effects not attainable with a single mechanism. Used individually, a defeat

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

39

Chapter 4

mechanism achieves results relative to how much effort is expended. Using a combination of defeat
mechanisms creates multiple dilemmas for enemy forces that magnify their effects significantly.
4-39. When commanders destroy, they apply lethal combat power on an enemy capability so that it can no
longer perform any function. Destroy is a tactical mission task that physically renders an enemy force combat
ineffective until it is reconstituted (FM 3-90). Alternatively, to destroy a combat system is to damage it so
badly that it cannot perform any function or be restored to a usable condition without being entirely rebuilt.
An enemy cannot restore a destroyed force to a usable condition without entirely rebuilding it.
4-40. Dislocate is to employ forces to obtain significant positional advantage in one or more domains,
rendering the enemy’s dispositions less valuable, perhaps even irrelevant. Dislocation aims to make
enemy forces expose themselves by reacting to the dislocating action or delay their actions until it is too late
for an effective response. Commanders often achieve dislocation by placing friendly forces in locations where
enemy forces do not expect them. Dislocation requires enemy commanders to make a choice: accept
neutralization of part of their force or risk its destruction while repositioning.
4-41. Isolate means to separate a force from its sources of support in order to reduce its effectiveness
and increase its vulnerability to defeat. Isolation can encompass different domains, and it can have both
physical and psychological effects detrimental to accomplishing a mission. Isolating a force in the
electromagnetic spectrum exacerbates the effects of physical isolation by reducing situational awareness. The
ability of an isolated unit to perform its intended mission generally degrades over time, decreasing its ability
to interfere with an opposing force. When commanders isolate, they deny an enemy or adversary access to
capabilities that enable an enemy unit to maneuver at will in time and space.
4-42. Disintegrate means to disrupt the enemy’s command and control, degrading the synchronization
and cohesion of its operations. Commanders often achieve disintegration by specifically targeting an
enemy’s command structure and communications systems. Disintegration is difficult to achieve; however,
prolonged isolation, destruction, and dislocation can produce it. Attacking the enemy’s will can accelerate
disintegration.
4-43. Commanders describe the defeat mechanism impacts using the dimensions of an operational
environment:
• Physical dimension impacts on material capabilities.
• Information dimension impacts on processes used to exchange information and the data itself.
• Human dimension impacts on people and on their decision making, morale, and will.

STABILITY MECHANISMS
4-44. In addition to defeating an enemy force, Army forces often seek to stabilize an area of operations by
performing stability tasks. Stability tasks are tasks conducted as part of operations outside the United States
in coordination with other instruments of national power to maintain or reestablish a safe and secure
environment and provide essential governmental services, emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and
humanitarian relief. There are six primary stability tasks:
• Establish civil security.
• Conduct security cooperation.
• Support to civil control.
• Restore essential services.
• Support to governance.
• Support to economic and infrastructure development.
(See ADP 3-07 for more information on stability.)
4-45. Army forces are morally and legally required to conduct minimum-essential stability tasks within their
means to do so during all operations. This includes establishing civil security to protect the population from
violence, restore public order, and provide food, water, and emergency medical treatment for the immediate
needs of the local population. During large-scale combat operations, divisions and higher echelons typically
take responsibility for these requirements, and they may task subordinate echelons to perform supporting
tasks. (See ADP 3-07 for more information about stability.)

40

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Army Campaign Support

4-46. The situation determines the combination of stability tasks for which staffs plan. In some operations,
the host nation can meet most of or all the population’s requirements. In those cases, Army forces work with
and through host-nation authorities. Conversely, Army forces operating in a failed state may need to support
the local population and work with civilian organizations to restore security and basic services. In both
environments, commanders employ civil affairs forces to enhance awareness of and manage the interactions
with the civil component, to identify and mitigate causes of instability in the society, or to apply functional
specialty skills normally the responsibility of the civil government. (See ATP 3-57.60 for an expanded
discussion on civil affairs planning.)
4-47. A stability mechanism is the primary method through which friendly forces affect civilians in
order to attain conditions that support establishing a lasting, stable peace. Stability mechanisms are
rarely used in isolation from each other. As with defeat mechanisms, combining them produces
complementary and reinforcing effects helping to shape an operational environment more effectively and
efficiently than in isolation. The four stability mechanisms are compel, control, influence, and support.
• Compel means to use, or threaten to use, lethal force to establish control and dominance, affect
behavioral change, or enforce compliance with mandates, agreements, or civil authority.
• Control involves imposing civil order.
• Influence means to alter the opinions, attitudes, and ultimately the behavior of foreign friendly,
neutral, adversary, and enemy audiences through messages, presence, and actions.
• Support establishes, reinforces, or sets conditions necessary for the instruments of national power
to function effectively.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

41

This page intentionally left blank.

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. Where Army
and joint definitions differ, (Army) precedes the definition. The proponent publication
for terms is listed in parentheses after the definition. Terms for which ADP 3-0 is the
proponent are marked with an asterisk (*).

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADP
AFTTP
ATP
CBRN

Army doctrine publication
Air Force tactics, techniques, and procedures
Army techniques publication
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear

DA

Department of the Army

DOD

Department of Defense

DODD

Department of Defense directive

DSCA

defense support of civil authorities

FM

field manual

JFC

joint force commander

JP

joint publication

MCRP

Marine Corps reference publication

MCTP

Marine Corps tactical publication

NTTP

Navy tactics, techniques, and procedures

TC

training circular

U.S.

United States

USSOCOM Pub

United States Special Operations Command publication

SECTION II – TERMS
adversary
A party acknowledged as potentially hostile to a friendly party and against which the use of force may
be envisaged. (JP 3-0)
*agility
The ability to move forces and adjust their dispositions and activities more rapidly than the enemy.
area of influence
An area inclusive of and extending beyond an operational area wherein a commander is capable of
direct influence by maneuver, fire support, and information normally under the commander’s
command or control. (JP 3-0)
area of interest
That area of concern to the commander, including the area of influence, areas adjacent to it, and
extending into enemy territory. (JP 3-0)

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

43

Glossary

area of operations
An operational area defined by a commander for the land or maritime force commander to accomplish
their missions and protect their forces. (JP 3-0)
ARFOR
The Army component and senior Army headquarters of all Army forces assigned or attached to a
combatant command, subordinate joint force command, joint functional command, or multinational
command. (FM 3-94)
Army design methodology
A methodology for applying critical and creative thinking to understand, visualize, and describe
problems and approaches to solving them. (ADP 5-0)
campaign
A series of related operations aimed at achieving strategic and operational objectives within a given
time and space. (JP 5-0)
campaigning
The persistent conduct of related operations, activities, and investments that align military actions with
the other instruments of national power, supporting global integration across the competition
continuum in pursuit of strategic objectives. (JP 3-0)
campaign plan
A joint operation plan for a series of related major operations aimed at achieving strategic or
operational objectives within a given time and space. (JP 5-0)
center of gravity
The source of power that provides moral or physical strength, freedom of action, or will to act. (JP 5-0)
*close combat
Warfare carried out on land in a direct-fire fight, supported by direct and indirect fires and other assets.
*close operations
Tactical actions of subordinate maneuver forces and the forces providing immediate support to them,
whose purpose is to employ maneuver and fires to close with and destroy enemy forces.
combat power
The total means of destructive and disruptive force that a military unit/formation can apply against an
enemy at a given time. (JP 3-0)
*combined arms
The synchronized and simultaneous application of arms to achieve an effect greater than if each
element was used separately or sequentially.
*command and control warfighting function
The related tasks and a system that enable commanders to exercise authority and direction to
accomplish missions.
concept of operations
A verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses what the commander intends to
accomplish and how it will be done using available resources. (JP 5-0)
*consolidate gains
Activities to make enduring any temporary operational success and to set the conditions for a
sustainable strategic environment, allowing for a transition of control to other legitimate authorities.
*conventional warfare
(Army) A violent struggle for domination between nation-states or coalitions of nation-states.

44

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Glossary

*convergence
An outcome created by the concerted employment of capabilities against combinations of decisive
points in any domain to create effects against a system, formation, or decision maker, or in a specific
geographic area.
crisis
An emerging incident or situation involving a possible threat to the United States, its citizens, military
forces, or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such diplomatic, economic, or
military importance that commitment of military forces and resources is contemplated to achieve
national and/or strategic objectives. (JP 3-0)
culminating point
The point at which a force no longer has the capability to continue its form of operations, offense or
defense. (JP 5-0)
decisive point
Key terrain, key event, critical factor, or function that, when acted upon, enables commanders to gain a
marked advantage over an enemy or contribute materially to achieving success. (JP 5-0)
*deep operations
Tactical actions against enemy forces, typically out of direct contact with friendly forces, intended to
shape future close operations and protect rear operations.
*defeat
To render a force incapable of achieving its objectives.
defeat in detail
Concentrating overwhelming combat power against separate parts of a force rather than defeating the
entire force at once. (ADP 3-90)
*defeat mechanism
A method through which friendly forces accomplish their mission against enemy opposition.
defense support of civil authorities
Support provided by United States Federal military forces, Department of Defense civilians,
Department of Defense contract personnel, Department of Defense Component assets, and National
Guard forces (when the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Governors of the affected
States, elects and requests to use those forces in Title 32, United States Code status) in response to
requests for assistance from civil authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement support, and
other domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special events. (DODD 3025.18).
*defensive operation
An operation to defeat an enemy attack, gain time, and develop conditions favorable for offensive or
stability operations.
*depth
The extension of operations in time, space, or purpose to achieve definitive results.
destroy
A tactical mission task that physically renders an enemy force combat ineffective until reconstituted.
(FM 3-90)
*disintegrate
To disrupt the enemy’s command and control, degrading the synchronization and cohesion of its
operations.
*dislocate
To employ forces to obtain significant positional advantage in one or more domains, rendering the
enemy’s dispositions less valuable, perhaps even irrelevant.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

45

Glossary

domain
A physically defined portion of an operational environment requiring a unique set of warfighting
capabilities and skills. (FM 3-0)
*enemy
A party identified as hostile against which the use of force is authorized.
end state
The set of required conditions that defines achievement of the commander’s objectives. (JP 3-0)
*endurance
The ability to persevere over time throughout the depth of an operational environment.
*exterior lines
Lines on which a force operates when its operations converge on the enemy.
*fires warfighting function
The related tasks and systems that create and converge effects in all domains against the threat to
enable actions across the range of military operations.
*force tailoring
The process of determining the right mix of forces and the sequence of their deployment in support of
a joint force commander.
homeland defense
The military protection of United States sovereignty and territory against external threats and
aggression or, as directed by the President, other threats. (JP 3-27)
*human advantage
A condition whereby a force holds the initiative in terms of training, morale, leadership, and will.
information advantage
A condition when a force holds the initiative in terms of situational understanding, decision making,
and relevant actor behavior. (ADP 3-13)
*intelligence warfighting function
The related tasks and systems that facilitate understanding the enemy, terrain, weather, civil
considerations, and other significant aspects of the operational environment.
interagency coordination
The planning and synchronization of efforts that occur between elements of Department of Defense
and participating United States Government departments and agencies. (JP 3-0)
*interior lines
Lines on which a force operates when its operations diverge from a central point.
interorganizational cooperation
Interaction that occurs among elements of the Department of Defense; participating United States
Government departments and agencies; state, territorial, local, and tribal agencies; foreign military
forces and government agencies; international organizations; nongovernmental organizations; and the
private sector. (JP 3-08)
*irregular warfare
(Army) The overt, clandestine, and covert employment of military and nonmilitary capabilities by state
and non-state actors to achieve policy objectives other than military domination of an enemy, either as
the primary approach or in concert with conventional warfare.
*isolate
To separate a force from its sources of support in order to reduce its effectiveness and increase its
vulnerability to defeat.

46

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Glossary

joint force
A force composed of significant elements, assigned or attached, of two or more Military Departments
that operate under a single joint force commander. (JP 1, Volume 1)
joint operations
Military actions conducted by joint forces and those Service forces employed in specified command
relationships with each other, which of themselves, do not establish joint forces. (JP 3-0)
*landpower
The ability—by threat, force, or occupation—to gain, sustain, and exploit control over land, resources,
and people.
*large-scale combat operations
Extensive joint combat operations in terms of scope and size of forces committed, conducted as a
campaign aimed at achieving operational and strategic objectives.
*line of effort
(Army) A line that links multiple tasks using the logic of purpose to focus efforts toward establishing a
desired end state.
*line of operations
(Army) A line that defines the directional orientation of a force in time and space in relation to the
enemy and links the force with its base of operations and objectives.
*main effort
A designated subordinate unit whose mission at a given point in time is most critical to overall mission
success.
maneuver
(Army) Movement in conjunction with fires. (ADP 3-90)
mission command
(Army) The Army’s approach to command and control that empowers subordinate decision making
and decentralized execution appropriate to the situation. (ADP 6-0)
movement
The positioning of combat power to establish the conditions for maneuver. (ADP 3-90)
*movement and maneuver warfighting function
The related tasks and systems that move and employ forces to achieve a position of relative advantage
with respect to the enemy.
*multidomain operations
The combined arms employment of joint and Army capabilities to create and exploit relative
advantages to achieve objectives, defeat enemy forces, and consolidate gains on behalf of joint force
commanders.
multinational operations
A collective term to describe military actions conducted by forces of two or more nations, usually
undertaken within the structure of a coalition or alliance. (JP 3-16)
mutual support
That support which units render each other throughout joint operations, because of their assigned tasks,
their position relative to each other and to the enemy, or their inherent capabilities. (JP 3-31)
*national strategic level of warfare
The level of warfare at which the United States government formulates policy goals and ways to
achieve them by synchronizing action across government and unified action partners and by employing
the instruments of national power.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

47

Glossary

nongovernmental organization
A private, self-governing, not-for-profit organization dedicated to alleviating human suffering; and/or
promoting education, health care, economic development, environmental protection, human rights, and
conflict resolution; and/or encouraging the establishment of democratic institutions and civil society.
(JP 3-08)
*offensive operation
An operation to defeat or destroy enemy forces and gain control of terrain, resources, and population
centers.
operation
A sequence of tactical actions with a common purpose or unifying theme. (JP 1, Volume 1)
operational approach
A broad description of the mission, operational concepts, tasks, and actions required to accomplish the
mission. (JP 5-0)
operational art
The cognitive approach by commanders and staffs—supported by their skill, knowledge, experience,
creativity, and judgment—to develop strategies, campaigns, and operations to organize and employ
military forces by integrating ends, ways, and means. (JP 3-0)
operational environment
The aggregate of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of
capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander. (JP 3-0)
*operational framework
A cognitive tool used to assist commanders and staffs in clearly visualizing and describing the
application of combat power in time, space, purpose, and resources in the concept of operations.
*operational initiative
The setting of tempo and terms of action throughout an operation.
operational level of warfare
The level of warfare in which campaigns and operations are planned, conducted, and sustained to
achieve operational objectives to support achievement of strategic objectives. (JP 3-0)
operational reach
The distance and duration across which a force can successfully employ military capabilities. (JP 3-0)
*phase
(Army) A planning and execution tool used to divide an operation in duration or activity.
*physical advantage
A condition when a force holds the initiative in terms of a combination of quantitative capabilities,
qualitative capabilities, or geographical positioning.
*protection warfighting function
The related tasks, systems, and methods that prevent or mitigate detection, threat effects, and hazards
to preserve the force, deny the enemy freedom of action, and enable commanders to apply combat
power.
*rear operations
Tactical actions behind major subordinate maneuver forces that facilitate movement, extend
operational reach, and maintain desired tempo.
*relative advantage
A location or condition, in any domain, relative to an adversary or enemy that provides an opportunity
to progress towards or achieve an objective.

48

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Glossary

reserve
(Army) That portion of a body of troops that is withheld from action at the beginning of an
engagement to be available for a decisive movement. (ADP 3-90)
*sector
An operational area assigned to a unit in the defense that has rear and lateral boundaries and
interlocking fires.
*setting the theater
The broad range of activities continuously conducted to establish conditions for the successful
execution of operations in a theater.
*stability mechanism
The primary method through which friendly forces affect civilians in order to attain conditions that
support establishing a lasting, stable peace.
*stability operation
An operation conducted outside the United States, in coordination with other instruments of national
power, to establish or maintain a secure environment and provide essential governmental services,
emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief.
*support area
The portion of the commander’s area of operations that is designated to facilitate the positioning,
employment, and protection of base sustainment assets required to sustain, enable, and control
operations.
*support area operations
Tactical actions that secure lines of communications, bases, and base clusters that enable an echelon’s
sustainment and command and control.
*supporting distance
The distance between two units that can be traveled in time for one to come to the aid of the other and
prevent its defeat by an enemy or ensure it regains control of a stability or defense support of civil
authorities situation.
*supporting effort
A designated subordinate unit with a mission that supports the success of the main effort.
*supporting range
The distance one unit may be geographically separated from a second unit yet remain within the
maximum range of the second unit’s weapons systems.
*sustainment warfighting function
The related tasks and systems that provide support and services to enable freedom of action, extend
operational reach, and prolong endurance.
tactical deception
An activity planned and executed by, and in support of, tactical-level commanders to cause enemy
decision makers to take actions or inactions prejudicial to themselves and favorable to the achievement
of tactical commanders’ objectives. (FM 3-13.4)
tactical level of warfare
The level of warfare at which forces plan and execute battles and engagements to achieve military
objectives. (JP 3-0)
*task-organizing
The act of designing a force, support staff, or sustainment package of specific size and composition to
meet a unique task or mission.
*tempo
The relative speed and rhythm of military operations over time with respect to the enemy.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

49

Glossary

*theater strategic level of warfare
The level of warfare at which combatant commanders synchronize with unified action partners and
employ all instruments of national power to fulfill policy aims within the assigned theater in support of
the national strategy.
*threat
Any combination of actors, entities, or forces that have the capability and intent to harm United States
forces, United States national interests, or the homeland.
unified action
The synchronization, coordination, or integration of the activities of governmental and
nongovernmental entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort. (JP 1, Volume 1)
*unified action partners
Those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private
sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of
operations.
unity of effort
Coordination and cooperation toward common objectives, even if the participants are not necessarily
part of the same command or organization that is the product of successful unified action. (JP 1,
Volume 2)
*warfighting function
A group of tasks and systems united by a common purpose that commanders use to accomplish
missions and training objectives.
*zone
An operational area assigned to a unit in the offense that only has rear and lateral boundaries.

50

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

References
All websites accessed 07 January 2025.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to the intended user of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. January 2025.
FM 1-02.1. Operational Terms. 28 February 2024.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
Most Department of Defense publications are available online: https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/.

JOINT PUBLICATIONS
Most joint publications are available online: https://www.jcs.mil/Doctrine/.
DODD 3025.18. Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). 29 December 2010.
JP 1, Volume 1. Joint Warfighting. 27 August 2023.
JP 1, Volume 2. The Joint Force. 19 June 2020.
JP 3-0. Joint Campaigns and Operations. 18 June 2022.
JP 3-08. Interorganizational Cooperation. 12 October 2016.
JP 3-16. Multinational Operations. 01 March 2019.
JP 3-27. Joint Homeland Defense. 12 December 2023.
JP 3-28. Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 23 September 2024.
JP 3-31. Joint Land Operations. 03 October 2019.
JP 3-52. Joint Airspace Control. 22 October 2022.
JP 3-57. Civil-Military Operations. 9 July 2018.
JP 5-0. Joint Planning. 01 December 2020.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Unless otherwise indicated, most Army publications are available online at https://armypubs.army.mil.
ADP 1-01. Doctrine Primer. 31 July 2019.
ADP 2-0. Intelligence. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-07. Stability. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-13. Information. 27 November 2023.
ADP 3-19. Fires. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-28. Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-37. Protection. 10 January 2024.
ADP 3-90. Offense and Defense. 31 July 2019.
ADP 4-0. Sustainment. 31 July 2019.
ADP 5-0. The Operations Process. 31 July 2019.
ADP 6-0. Mission Command: Command and Control of Army Forces. 31 July 2019.
ATP 3-06/MCTP 12-10B. Urban Operations. 21 July 2022.
ATP 3-34.80. Geospatial Engineering. 26 March 2024.

2 M

2025

ADP 3-0

51

References

ATP 3-57.60. Civil Affairs Planning. 07 May 2024.
ATP 3-72/MCRP 10-10E.9/NTTP 3-72.1/AFTTP 3-2.65. (U) Operations in a Nuclear Environment.
07 March 2022.
ATP 3-94.4. Reconstitution Operations. 05 May 2021.
ATP 4-10/MCRP 3-40B.6 (MCRP 4-11H)/NTTP 4-09.1/AFTTP 3-2.41. Multi-Service Tactics,
Techniques, and Procedures for Operational Contract Support. 16 December 2021.
FM 3-0. Operations.
March
FM 3-12. Cyberspace Operations and Electromagnetic Warfare. 24 August 2021.
FM 3-13.4. Army Support to Military Deception. 26 February 2019.
FM 3-14. Army Space Operations. 30 October 2019
FM 3-16. The Army in Multinational Operations. 15 July 2024.
FM 3-52. Airspace Control. 20 October 2016.
FM 3-57. Civil Affairs Operations. 28 July 2021.
FM 3-90. Tactics. 01 May 2023.
FM 3-94. Armies, Corps, and Division Operations. 23 July 2021.
FM 4-0. Sustainment Operations. 18 August 2024.
FM 5-0. Planning and Orders Production. 04 November 2024.
FM 6-05/MCRP 3-30.4/NTTP 3-05.19/AFTTP 3-2.73/USSOCOM Pub 3-33. CF-SOF Multi-Service
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Conventional Forces and Special Operations Forces
Integration, Interoperability, and Interdependence. 25 January 2022.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C. The Commander’s Handbook on the Law of Land Warfare. 07 August 2019.
FM 7-0. Training. 14 June 2021.
TC 7-100. Hybrid Threat. 26 November 2010.

UNITED STATES LAW
Most acts and public laws are available at https://uscode.house.gov/.
Title 32, United States Code, National Guard.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate (APD) website
at https://armypubs.army.mil/.
DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

52

ADP 3-0

2 M

2025

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.
A
activities,
consolidation, 1-29
protection, 2-17
shape operational
environments, 1-21
adversary, defined, 1-41
agility,
defined, 3-14
alliance, 1-71
analysis,
relative combat power,
2-27–2-28
approach, enemy, 1-44
area of influence, defined, 3-30
area of interest, defined, 3-31
area of operations, defined, 3-27
areas,
strategic framework, 3-23
armed conflict, 1-37
Army design methodology, 4-32–
4-33
defined, 4-32
Army forces, land domain, 1-61
role, 1-24
support to joint campaigns,
1-55–1-79
assess, end state, 4-10
assigned area, 3-26–3-31
types of, 3-26

B
basing, 4-23

C
campaign, defined, 4-3
landpower and, 1-56
campaign plan, 4-3–4-4
defined, 4-3
campaign support, from Army, 41–4-5
campaigning, defined, 1-55
capabilities, complementary, 3-5
expeditionary, 1-57
integration of, 3-16
reinforcing, 3-6
roles of, 1-85

2 M

2025

warfighting function, 2-2
center of gravity, 4-11–4-12
defined, 4-11
challenges, 3-41–3-44
China, 1-48
civilians, 1-4
close combat, 1-75–1-79
challenges, 1-76
defined, 1-75
requirements, 1-78
close operations, defined, 3-35
synchronizing, 3-32–3-36
coalition, 1-71
collaboration, 4-29
combat power, 2-22–2-38
defined, 2-23
dynamics, 2-25
factors, 2-29
generating factors, 2-26
judgment, 2-27
measures of, 2-24
organization, 2-29–2-38
combined arms, 3-4–3-7
defined, 3-4
combined arms approach, 3-7
command and control, 2-4–2-7
system, 2-6
tasks, 2-5
command and control warfighting
function, defined, 2-4
commander, considerations, 2-28
considerations, 2-37
responsibility, 1-80
commander’s will, 1-9
commanders, assessment, 4-7
clarity of, 1-54
combat power, 2-22
consideration, 3-24
considerations, 1-49
considerations, 2-29
intelligence driven, 2-12
operational art and, 4-27
planning by, 3-32
priorities, 2-18
tasks from, 4-37
understanding, 1-3, 1-14, 1-51

ADP 3-0

communication, operational art,
4-31
competition, 1-86
competition below armed conflict,
1-35
competition continuum, 1-32–1-33
complementary capabilities,
3-5
concept of operations,
defined, 4-30
shape, 4-14
conditions, end state and,
4-8–4-10
conflict, prevent, 1-88
consolidate, theory of victory, 1-85
consolidate gains, 1-28–1-3,
11-90
defined, 1-28
limits, 1-30
contractor, support from, 1-68
conventional forces,
integration of, 1-72–1-73
conventional warfare, defined, 1-6
convergence, 3-15–3-19
considerations, 3-17
defined, 3-15
cooperation, 1-86
coordination and, 1-63–1-69
strengthen, 1-22
training and, 1-81
coordination, 4-34
cooperation and, 1-63–1-69
forces, 1-89
joint and, 3-26
counter aggression during crisis,
1-23–1-24
crisis, 1-87
defined, 1-36
culminating point, defined, 4-20

D
deception, close combat and, 1-77
decisive point, 4-13–4-14
defined, 4-13
decisive points,
categories, 3-16
deep operations, defined, 3-34

53

Index

Entries are by paragraph number.
synchronizing, 3-32–3-36
defeat, defined, 4-34
stability mechanism and,
4-36–4-47
defeat in detail, defined, 4-35
defeat mechanism, 4-38–4-43
defined, 4-38
defeat mechanisms, 1-89
defense, 1-7–1-11
defense support of civil
authorities, 1-12–1-13
defensive operation, defined, 1-10
depth, defined, 3-21
destroy, defined, 4-39
deterrent, 1-24
disintegrate, defined, 4-42
dislocate, defined, 4-40
domain, defined, 1-50
warfighting function, 2-1
domains, 1-61
dynamics, combat power, 2-25

E
echelon, operational art and, 4-26
tasks, 1-26
warfighting function, 2-2
effects, complementary and
reinforcing, 2-25
end state, conditions and,
4-8–4-10
defined, 4-8
endurance, defined, 3-20
enemy, defeat of, 4-34–4-35
defined, 1-41
strategies, 3-41–3-44
expeditionary capabilities, 1-57
exploitation, consolidate gains,
1-29
exterior lines, defined, 4-16

F
factors, understanding, 1-3
fired warfighting function, defined,
2-14
fires, 2-14–2-15
tasks, 2-15
force tailoring, defined, 2-30
forces, integration, 1-72
foundations, 1-1–1-89
freedom of action, joint, 1-62

G
goals, 1-20

54

H
hazard, 1-42
homeland defense, defined, 1-13
human advantage, defined, 3-11

I
imperatives, 3-22
information advantage,
defined, 3-10
instruments of national power,
end state and, 4-9
integration, forces, 1-72
unified action partners, 1-83
intelligence, 2-11–2-13
support from, 2-13
tasks, 2-12
intelligence warfighting function,
defined, 2-11
interagency coordination, defined,
1-63
interior lines, defined, 4-16
interorganizational cooperation,
defined, 1-64
irregular warfare, defined, 1-6
isolate, defined, 4-41

J-K
joint campaign, support to,
4-1–4-5
joint campaigns, support from
Army forces, 1-55–1-79
joint force, Army force and, 1-21
defined, 1-60
support to, 1-23
joint operations, 1-60–1-62
defined, 1-60
judgment, combat power and,
2-27

L
land domain, 2-23
Army forces, 1-61
landpower, defined, 1-56
large-scale combat operations,
defined, 1-25
focus, 1-8, 1-26
plan for, 1-25
lethal force, 1-79
line of effort, defined, 4-15
line of operations, defined, 4-15

M
main effort, and supporting effort
and reserve, 3-37–3-40
defined, 3-38

ADP 3-0

maneuver, defined, 2-10
mission, primary, 1-1
mission command, defined, 2-7
mission variables, 1-54
movement, defined, 2-9
movement and maneuver,
2-8–2-10
tasks, 2-8
movement and maneuver
warfighting function, defined,
2-8
multidomain operations, 3-1–3-3
defined, 3-1
goal, 3-3
multinational operations,
1-70–1-71
defined, 1-70
mutual support, 2-32–2-36
defined, 2-32

N
national interests, strategy and,
4-2
national strategic level of warfare,
defined, 1-15
network, develop, 1-58
nongovernmental organization,
defined, 1-67

O
objectives, campaign and, 4-1
strategic, 4-5
offense, 1-7–1-11
offensive operation, defined, 1-9
operation, defined, 1-1
operational, challenges, 3-42
operational approach, defined,
4-31
operational art, application,
4-25–4-33
defined, 4-6
elements, 4-6–4-24
functions, 4-6
operational environment,
1-49–1-54
defined, 1-49
dimensions of, 4-43
nature, 1-52
operational framework, 3-24–3-40
defined, 3-24
models, 3-25
operational initiative, defined, 3-12
operational level of warfare,
defined, 1-17
operational reach, 4-21–4-22

2 M

2025

Index

Entries are by paragraph number.
defined, 4-21
operational variables, 1-53
operations, aligning, 3-33
characteristics of, 3-2
joint, 1-60–1-62
objectives and, 4-5
war and, 1-1–1-18
organization, international, 1-66
organizations, Army support to,
1-65
civilian, 1-69

P-Q
partners, coordination, 1-30
peer threat, 1-40
methods by, 1-43
people, influence by, 1-54
war, 1-4
phase, defined, 4-18
physical advantage, defined, 3-9
plan, campaign, 4-3–4-4
large-scale combat operations,
1-25
stability, 4-46
planning, chemical response, 1-27
nuclear response, 1-27
population, organizations, 1-65
populations and institutions,
consolidate gains with, 1-31
preparation, 1-35, 1-49
for convergence, 3-18–3-19
training, 1-84
prevail during large-scale combat
operations, 1-25–1-27
principles of joint operations, 4-28
protection, 2-16–2-19
operational reach, 4-22
tasks, 2-19
protection warfighting function,
defined, 2-16

R
range of military operations, 1-74
readiness, training and, 1-80–1-84
rear operations, defined, 3-36
synchronizing, 3-32–3-36
reconstitution, 2-37–2-38
elements, 2-38
reinforcing capabilities, 3-6
relative advantage, 3-8–3-12
achieving, 3-12
defined, 3-8
reserve, and main effort and
supporting effort, 3-37–3-40

2 M

2025

defined, 3-40
response, 1-24
risk, 4-24
weighing, 1-27
risks, 1-87
rogue regimes, 1-47
Russia, 1-48

S
sector, defined, 3-29
setting the theater, 1-86
defined, 1-62
shape operational environments,
1-20–1-22
skills, acquiring, 1-81
special operations forces,
integration of, 1-72–1-73
stability, 1-7–1-11
stability mechanism, defeat and,
4-36–4-47
defined, 4-47
stability mechanisms, 4-44–4-47
stability operation, defined, 1-11
stability tasks, 4-44–4-45
staff, combat power, 2-22
strategic context, types, 1-34
strategic environment, 1-32–1-47
characteristics, 1-32
strategic framework, 3-23
strategic roles, 1-19–1-31
strategic roles, types, 1-19
strategy, role of, 4-2–4-4
support, methods, 1-55
support area, defined, 3-36
support area operations,
defined, 3-36
supporting distance, 2-34–2-35
defined, 2-34
supporting effort, and main effort
and reserve, 3-37–3-40
defined, 3-39
supporting range, defined, 2-33
sustainment, 2-20–2-21
sustainment warfighting function,
defined, 2-20

T
tactical, challenges, 3-43
tactical deception, defined, 1-77
tactical level of warfare, defined,
1-18
tactical success, criteria, 1-90

ADP 3-0

task organization,
combat power, 2-31
task-organizing, defined, 2-31
tasks, command and control, 2-5
fires, 2-15
intelligence, 2-12
protection, 2-19
warfighting function, 2-3
technology, training and, 1-82
tempo, defined, 4-17
tenets, multidomain operations,
3-13–3-21
theater strategic level of warfare,
defined, 1-16
theory of victory, 1-85–1-90
threat, defined, 1-39
hazard and, 1-39–1-45
threats, capabilities, 1-45
current, 1-46–1-48
total Army, 1-38
training, characteristics, 1-80
readiness and, 1-80–1-84
technology and, 1-82
transition, 4-19

U
understanding, operational art
and, 4-29
unified action, cooperation and,
1-64
defined, 1-59
unified action partners, defined,
1-59
integrate, 1-59
integration, 1-83
unity of effort, defined, 1-59

V
violent extremist organizations,
1-46

W-X-Y
war, characteristics, 1-2
operations and, 1-1–1-18
people, 1-4
warfare, influences on, 1-5
levels, 1-14–1-18
methods, 1-6
warfighting function, 2-1–2-21
capabilities, 2-2
defined, 2-1
tasks, 2-3

Z
zone, defined, 3-28

55

This page intentionally left blank.

A

30

2 M

2025

%\2UGHURIWKH6HFUHWDU\RIWKH$UP\

5$1'<$*(25*(
*HQHUDO 8QLWHG 6WDWHV $UP\
&KLHI RI 6WDII

2IILFLDO

0$5.) $9(5,//
$GPLQLVWUDWLYH$VVLVWDQW
WRWKH6HFUHWDU\RIWKH$UP\
2 0 301

',675,%87,21
$FWLYH$UP\$UP\1DWLRQDO*XDUGDQG8QLWHG6WDWHV$UP\5HVHUYH7REHGLVWULEXWHGLQ
DFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKHLQLWLDOGLVWULEXWLRQQXPEHU,'1 110 12UHTXLUHPHQWVIRU$ 3 3 0

This page intentionally left blank.

PIN: 102326-000

