ADP 1

THE ARMY

JULY 2019

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION:

Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.

This publication supersedes ADP 1, dated 17 September 2012.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY


Introduction

Landpower is the ability—by threat, force, or occupation—to gain, sustain, and exploit control over land,
resources, and people (ADP 3-0). Our Army provides the United States with a campaign-quality force able
to secure, seize, and occupy terrain; sustain itself; and enable our unified action partners to interact with,
secure, or control populations. When necessary, the Army conducts large-scale ground combat operations on
land to achieve strategic objectives and impose our will on enemies. No other force has this capability.

Our Army exists to defend the Nation and protect our Nation’s interests. We answer the Nation’s call to serve
whenever and wherever required. As the preeminent land warfighting force in the world, we are capable of
managing crises and conducting large-scale ground combat as part of the joint force. Our Soldiers, leaders,
and units possess the tactical and technical competence to conduct successful operations across the full range
of military operations and the competition continuum. We maintain the trust of the American people who
rely on the Armed Forces to protect and defend the Constitution and to guarantee their freedom, security, and
interests as we have always done.

To talk about our Army is to talk about its rich and dynamic history. On 14 June 1775, the Second Continental
Congress established the Continental Army, instituting the United States Army as the first Service of the
Armed Forces of the United States. As one of the oldest American institutions, our Army predates the
Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. For almost two and a half centuries, Soldiers have built a
legacy of character, competence, and commitment symbolized by the 190 campaign streamers that adorn the
Army flag—each one signifying the great sacrifices of Soldiers on behalf of the Nation and the American
people.

The Army today is a force that is prepared to defend the Nation and protect our national interests through
prompt and sustained land combat. This includes forcible entry from the land, sea, or air; closing with and
destroying a determined enemy with fires and movement; sustaining the Army and joint forces; consolidating
battlefield gains to facilitate a sustainable peace; and defending our homeland. The Army organizes, trains,
and equips the force to conduct offensive, defensive, and stability operations when employed abroad and
defense support of civil authorities (DSCA) tasks at home. (See figure introduction-1 on page vi.)

The Army accomplishes its mission by supporting the joint force in four strategic roles: shaping operational
environments, preventing conflict, prevailing in large-scale ground combat operations, and consolidating
gains. The Army helps the joint force win when it achieves its operational objective in the performance of its
roles across the range of military operations. The strategic roles clarify the enduring reasons for which our
Army is organized, trained, and equipped. The Army provides its core competencies to the joint force, which
are essential and enduring capabilities that enable unified action. These competencies define the Army’s
fundamental contributions to the Nation’s defense.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 Vv


Introduction

vi

Figure introduction-1. Prepared to defend

Technological change, as well as both state and non-state actors that threaten global stability, continuously
influence the Army. Our Army is a foundational component of the joint force that defeats enemies who
challenge U.S. interests worldwide. Army forces provide combatant commanders the means to shape
operational environments, deter potential adversaries, defeat enemies in all land environments, and
consolidate military gains on the ground to ensure sustainable outcomes.

The Soldiers of today are the legacy of a proud heritage of selfless and courageous Americans who fought at
Lexington and Concord, held the line at Yorktown, charged up Missionary Ridge, and went over the top in
the Argonne Forest. We are descended from those who held fast in the Ardennes, conducted amphibious
assaults across the Pacific, and perfected air-mobility in Southeast Asia. Many Soldiers still serving brought
peace and stability to the Balkans, while thousands more are in harm’s way in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other
dangerous places. The guiding foundations logic chart shows how the Army continues this legacy of service.
(See figure introduction-2.)

Soldiers with physical and moral courage, the ability to think critically and creatively, and the resilience to
endure hardship provide the Army its collective strength. Soldiers are the strength of our Army today and
tomorrow, just as they have been since 1775.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Introduction

Guiding Foundations

U.S. Constitution | Title 10, USC | DODD 5100.01

National Defense, Military, and Security Strategies The Army’s History: A Legacy of Service

The Army Profession

National Military
Deter, deny, and defeat state

adversaries. Land Operational

. t Human
environment} ; F
Disrupt, degrade, and defeat combat PMESII-PT interaction

violent extremist organizations. - : Take care of Soldiers, Department of
Enable operations across all domains. the Army Civilians, and their Families.

Strengthen our global network of
allies and partners.

U.S. Army Strategic Roles in support of the joint force

mM oo ———_._ Wr._I_-_ Sm
Shape Prevent Prevail in large-scale Consolidate gains

operational conflict ground combat
environments

Ready to Prepared for the
fight future

The Army provides to the joint force

The Army Core Competencies Unified Action

Central Idea: Synchronization, coordination,
and/or integration of the activities of governmental
and nongovernmental entities with military
operations to achieve unity of effort.

Prompt and sustained land combat
Combined arms operations
- Combined arms maneuver and wide area security
- Armored and mechanized operations
- Airborne and air assault operations
Special operations 7
Integrate national, multinational, and joint power on land teri: aon
Shape the operational environment Operations Interdependence
Set and sustain the theater for the joint force Military actions conducted The purposeful
by joint forces and those reliance by one
Executed through Service forces employed Service on another
— - in specified command Service’s capabilities
Unified Land Operations relationships with each to maximize the
The simultaneous execution of offense, defense, stability, and other, which of complementary and
defense support of civil authorities across multiple domains to themselves, do not reinforcing effects of
shape operational environments, prevent conflict, prevail in establish joint forces. both.
large-scale ground combat, and consolidate gains as part of (JP 3-0)
unified action. (ADP 3-0)

ADP Army doctrine publication
Department of Defense directive
joint publication
PMESII-PT _ political, military, economic, social, information, infrastructure, physical environment, and time
United States
United States Code

Figure introduction-2. Guiding foundations logic chart

31 July 2019 ADP 1 vii


This page intentionally left blank.


Chapter 1
Why America Needs an Army

[Y]ou don’t dictate end states from the air. You can’t control territory. You can’t influence
people. You can’t maintain lines of control after you've established them. That will take a
ground force....

General Mark A. Welsh Ill, Air Force Chief of Staff

The Nation’s need for a capable, ready Army is enduring even if it has not always been
a priority. During important moments in our Nation’s history, such as the beginning of
World War II and the Korean War, ill-prepared Army forces sacrificed at great cost to
buy time while the Nation went through the deliberate and time-consuming process of
properly organizing, equipping, and training sufficient ground forces. The first battles
ended badly. U.S. Army forces in the Philippines and Korea suffered painful defeats in
large part because they were not prepared for war. While Soldiers fought valiantly in
both places, they were not ready for combat. Given the lessons of our own history, and
that large-scale ground combat against a peer threat is no longer unthinkable, it is our
moral imperative to ensure that we send no Soldiers into combat unless they are
properly equipped, trained, and led.

ARMY RESPONSIBILITIES

1-1. The primary responsibility of our Army is to conduct prompt and sustained land combat as part of the
joint force. The Army must deliver ready, trained, and equipped forces to meet the demands placed upon it.
Our Nation expects the Army to be lethal, agile, and adaptive. In 1899, Secretary of War Elihu Root wrote,
“[T]he real object of having an army is to prepare for war.” When not engaged in direct conflict, the Army
focuses its efforts on conducting operations to prepare for and deter war. Our Army achieves readiness
through sound doctrine, capable organizations, realistic training and education, modernized equipment,
inspired leadership, and disciplined Soldiers. Readiness is what makes our Army credible.

1-2. Our Army is interdependent with the other elements of the joint
force and serves as the foundation upon which the joint force conducts
land operations. Just as the Army requires joint capabilities to conduct
operations, the joint force also requires Army capabilities to succeed capabilities to maximize the
across the multiple domains of air, land, maritime, space, and complementary and
cyberspace. Army support to other Services provides key enabling | reinforcing effects of both.
capabilities to the joint force to include operational-level command and
control, communications, intelligence, and sustainment support. Only credible and ready land forces
operating as an element of the joint force provide U.S. decision makers with strategic options to shape
operational environments, prevent conflict, prevail during large-scale ground combat operations, and
consolidate gains to win in volatile or uncertain environments.

Joint interdependence is the
purposeful reliance by one
Service on another Service’s

1-3. Landpower enables the Nation’s leaders to respond to security challenges in definitive and decisive
ways. Landpower focuses on destroying an enemy’s armed forces, occupying its territory, and breaking its
will. Landpower protects our national interests, brings order to chaos, and protects populations. Only the
Army has the capability and capacity to seize, occupy, and control large land areas; provide civil security;
and provide a visible and physical presence throughout a territory or country. Controlling land requires a
commitment of landpower, a commitment historically met by Army forces and expressed by U.S. Navy Rear
Admiral J. C. Wylie:

31 July 2019 ADP 1 1-1


Chapter 1

The ultimate determinant in war is a man on the scene with a gun. This man is the final
power in war. He is in control. He determines who wins. There are those who would dispute
this as an absolute but it is my belief that while other means may critically influence war
today, after whatever devastation and destruction may be inflicted on an enemy, if the
strategist is forced to strive for final and ultimate control, he must establish, or must
present as an inevitable prospect, a man on the scene with a gun. This is the Soldier.

1-4. The Army’s legacy of service makes clear the critical role of the American Soldier before, during, and
after conflict. War will continue to remain an intensely human endeavor. To defend our Nation’s security
and prosperity in the increasingly interconnected and volatile world, the Army must remain globally engaged,
provide America’s leaders with options, and defend the Nation’s vital interests on the ground. This requires
a well-trained and equipped Army prepared to protect the homeland, to defeat any enemy worldwide, and to
provide disaster relief or humanitarian assistance when called upon. (See figure 1-1.)

Figure 1-1. The Army’s legacy of service

1-5. The Army’s essential characteristics of trust, honorable service, military expertise, stewardship, and
€ésprit de corps enable the Army to serve America faithfully as an established military profession. These
characteristics of the Army Profession reflect our national ideals, the Army Values, the Army Ethic, and the
Army’s approach to accomplishing its mission to defend the Constitution and the American people. Soldiers
and Department of the Army (DA) Civilians are professionals, guided in everything they do by the Army
Ethic. They are certified and bonded with other Army professionals through a shared identity and service

within a culture of trust.

1-2 ADP 1 31 July 2019


Why America Needs an Army

1-6. Today’s Soldier joins those men and women who previously served the Nation with courage and
dedication. The campaigns and battles for which our forbearers fought set clear milestones marking the
Army’s role and importance in American history. The Army’s historical legacy discussed in the appendix
helps illuminate the challenges our Army faced in the past and will likely face in the future.

THE TOTAL ARMY

1-7. The Department of Defense directs the Army to organize, train, and equip as an integrated total force.
It consists of three components: the Regular Army, the Army National Guard, and the Army Reserve.
Together, the three components representing the Total Army ensure that we have the capacity, capability,
and endurance to do what the Nation requires. (See figure 1-2.)

Figure 1-2. The Total Army

REGULAR ARMY

1-8. The Regular Army, commonly referred to as the active duty force, consists of full-time Soldiers
supported by the Army Civilian Corps. The Regular Army is under the command of the President of the
United States. Service-specific matters are the responsibility of the Secretary of the Army, the Chief of Staff
of the Army, and other appointed officials. The Regular Army includes units of all specialties necessary for
the prompt employment of land forces. However, the Regular Army relies upon units and capabilities
maintained in the Army National Guard and Army Reserve.

ARMY NATIONAL GUARD

1-9. The Army National Guard has a dual role based on the Constitution. Its first role is that of a state
military force. Its second role is as an operational reserve for the Regular Army. Each state, the U.S. territories
(Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands), and the District of Columbia have Army National Guard units

31 July 2019 ADP 1


Chapter 1

totaling 54 state and territorial National Guards. Army National Guard forces remain under the command of
their respective governors until mobilized for federal service. Each state or territory Army National Guard
has an adjutant general—a general officer appointed by the governor—who serves as its uniformed leader.
The governor can order the Army National Guard to state service since it is a state military force. The Army
National Guard responds to natural disasters and other domestic emergencies many times each year. While
serving their states, these Soldiers are subject to civil laws and their states’ Codes of Military Justice. A
governor can use the Army National Guard of the state for law enforcement, which is something that federal
military forces cannot perform except under special circumstances. A small number of Army National Guard
Soldiers are on full-time active duty, a duty status called “Active Guard and Reserve.”

1-10. When ordered to active duty, Army National Guard Soldiers become subject to the Uniform Code of
Military Justice and fall under the command of combatant commanders. Army National Guard forces are
similarly organized and equipped as units in the Regular Army and Army Reserve. The Department of the
Army provides their equipment, provides much of their funding, and is responsible for assessing their combat
readiness. However, states retain latitude in recruiting, manning, and training. (See figure 1-3.)

Figure 1-3. Training

ARMY RESERVE

1-11. The Army Reserve is under the command of the President and serves as a federal military force.
Elements of it mobilize when required. Most Army Reserve Soldiers serve for a period in the Regular Army
and then elect to continue their service in the Reserve. The Army Reserve makes up about a fifth of the
Army’s organized units, but it provides a half of the Army’s sustainment units, a fourth of the Army’s
mobilization base-expansion capability, and most of its civil affairs capacity. The Army Reserve is also the
Army’s major source of trained individual Soldiers for strengthening headquarters and filling vacancies in
the Regular Army during a crisis. Many Army Reserve Soldiers are also civilian professionals, such as nurses,
dentists, and computer technicians, who augment critical Army specialties. Similar to Army National Guard
members, a small number of Army Reservists are full-time active duty.

ARMY CIVILIAN CORPS

1-4

1-12. The Army has the largest civilian workforce in the Department of Defense. DA Civilians are full-time
and enduring members of the profession. The Army Civilian Corps provides the complementary and
reinforcing skills, expertise, and competence required to project, program, support, and sustain the uniformed
side of the Army.

1-13. DA Civilians have assumed increased levels of responsibility and greater authority since the Army
transitioned to a professional volunteer force. Over 23,000 DA Civilians have deployed to Afghanistan and
Iraq in support of the uniformed Services since 2001. They hold senior leadership and mission critical
positions in operating forces and key positions in the institutional force. DA Civilians also serve in Army
Reserve centers. Like Soldiers and members of Congress, they take an oath solemnly swearing that they will

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Why America Needs an Army

support and defend the Constitution. Like their uniformed counterparts, DA Civilians live the Army Values
and prepare for unforeseen future threats.

THE ARMY FUNCTIONAL STRUCTURE

You may fly over a land forever; you may bomb it, atomize it, pulverize it and wipe it clean
of life-but if you desire to defend it, protect it, and keep it for civilization, you must do this
on the ground, the way the Roman legions did, by putting your young men in the mud.

T. R. Fehrenbach

1-14. Soldiers and DA Civilians serve in two functionally discrete entities known as operating forces and the
institutional force.

OPERATING FORCES

1-15. Operating forces consist of units organized, trained, and equipped to deploy and fight. They make up
about two-thirds of the Regular Army and three-fourths of the Army’s total force. The Secretary of Defense
assigns these units to the various combatant commanders. Operating forces are modular. They consist of
interchangeable units grouped under various headquarters. When a joint force commander specifies the
capabilities needed, the Army provides tailored force packages to provide those capabilities. In addition to
conventional forces, the Army also provides the largest element of the joint special operations forces. Army
special operations forces include several special forces groups, the Ranger Regiment, civil affairs units,
military information support units, and special operations aviation.

THE INSTITUTIONAL FORCE

1-16. The institutional force ensures the readiness of all Army forces. The institutional force consists of
Army organizations whose primary mission is to generate, prepare, and sustain operating forces of the Army.
Therefore, the institutional force remains under the command of the Department of the Army. The training
base provides military skills and a professional education to every Soldier—as well as to members of the
other Services and multinational partners. The institutional force is also the Army’s principal interface with
the commercial sector. Our national industrial base provides equipment and sustainment for the Army
managed by the various headquarters of the institutional force. Army installations are power projection
platforms that train forces and serve as departure points. Once operating forces deploy, the institutional force
provides the sustainment that Soldiers need for their missions and specified support provided by the Army to
the other Services. The institutional force focuses on departmental (Title 10, USC) tasks including—

e Recruiting.

Maintaining.

Organizing.

Servicing.

Supplying.

Training.

Educating.

Mobilizing.

Demobilizing.

Administering (including the morale and welfare of personnel).
Developing, outfitting, and repairing military equipment.

Equipping (including research and development).

Constructing, maintaining, and repairing facilities.

1-17. The institutional force contributes to operational missions by optimizing individual and team
performance and by ensuring the right Soldier is in the right place at the right time. Combined with operating
forces, it develops competencies critical to future responsibilities.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 1-5


This page intentionally left blank.


Chapter 2
Today’s Army

To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace.
George Washington

The Army operates in all domains, converging its capabilities to control land, which is
the most complex domain of all. This is where conflicts are most often resolved and
sustainable outcomes achieved. The land domain includes humanity in its entirety of
cultures, religions, social and economic groups, and politics. These can all be drivers
of instability and conflict in today’s operational environments. The Army enables and
influences operations across the air, maritime, space, and cyberspace domains, each of
which has influence on the land domain. Winning on land requires Soldiers, leaders,
and units to have the skills, knowledge, and attributes to operate effectively in
ambiguity and chaos. Continuous learning, adaptation, and agility are the keys to
winning in lethal and uncertain environments.

OPERATING IN THE LAND DOMAIN

2-1. The variations in climate, terrain, velocity and complexity of human interaction, and the diversity of
populations have a far greater impact on operations in the land domain than in any other domain. The most
distinguishing characteristic of the land domain is the human element. Humans temporarily transit the air,
maritime, and space domains, but they ultimately live on land. Controlling terrain, infrastructure, and
populations are uniquely human-oriented endeavors that require Soldiers to operate in the midst of political,
economic, social, and religious tumult. The human context informs how the Army conducts operations among
populations, within the military, political, and physical constraints of the environment. Winning battles and
engagements alone is insufficient for achieving sustainable outcomes. Army forces consolidate gains with
and among populations to ensure battlefield victories translate into long-term success.

2-2. Geographic combatant commanders implement various security cooperation activities to shape the
environment in ways favorable to U.S. interests. Most activities involve working with foreign security forces
on the ground. These activities build partner defense capabilities and enhance the overall security of the
theater. Our assistance assures our multinational partners and improves joint force access to key regions. The
degree of security cooperation communicates U.S. commitment, strength, and awareness to adversaries in
those regions. If necessary, combat-ready Army units deploy to threatened areas to reinforce host-nation
forces, complement joint air and maritime forces, and communicate clear U.S. intent to resist aggression.
Partnership develops trust, improves interoperability, and builds shared understanding as our Soldiers
positively influence host-nation forces, leaders, populations, and other government agencies. This partnership
produces enduring positive effects for regional stability and effective deterrence.

2-3. Few nations can afford to field and employ a large air force or navy. The principal military forces
across the globe are armies, even in regions often defined by their proximity to large bodies of water. For
most nations, defense and security considerations center on land forces. The United States furthers many of
its strategic interests using Soldiers who work on a daily basis directly with multinational partners to improve
their ground forces. Our Soldiers make the Army the most capable land force in the world, which in turn
maintains U.S. credibility and security.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 2-1


Chapter 2

LAND COMBAT

2-4. Land combat consists of operations against a
thinking and lethal enemy in conditions that include
violence, chaos, fatigue, fear, and uncertainty. Large-scale
ground combat is the most lethal and demanding
environment human beings have ever devised to resolve
conflict. Soldiers face enemy forces with advanced
weapons and sophisticated means of communication.
Enemy forces use every means available to achieve their
ends to include terror, criminal activities, and information
warfare. They operate in and among noncombatants for
concealment and protection. To an ever-increasing degree,
information and cyber activities are inseparable from land
operations. Cyber activities directly affect our ability to
communicate, meaning that successfully conducting land

The Army must—

Engage regionally and respond globally.
Develop the situation through action.
Conduct combined arms operations.

Conduct reconnaissance in close
contact with the enemy and population.

Sustain high-tempo operations.
Establish and maintain security.
Consolidate gains.

Respond to and mitigate crises in the
homeland.

Ensure institutional and operational

combat requires protecting friendly networks while
exploiting or degrading enemy networks. Compensating
for the likelihood of degraded communications and the
resulting ambiguity or uncertainty requires highly skilled
Soldiers in well-trained units able to exercise disciplined
initiative and accept risk. The Army adapts to and compensates for uncertainty with its mission command
approach, which focuses each echelon on the purpose of operations in context and not simply on the execution
of specific tasks that may no longer contribute to achieving an operational goal.

synergy and innovation.

Develop innovative leaders and
optimize human performance.

2-5. Due to the size and number of its combined arms formations, the Army is the only U.S. force capable
of defeating threats around the globe during sustained land combat. The Army is uniquely organized, trained,
and equipped with the depth and capabilities to be a credible land force deterrent against world and regional
powers. Should deterrence fail, the Army, with its unified action partners, makes victory against an enemy
decisive. (See figure 2-1.)

Figure 2-1. The Army as part of the joint force

OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTS

2-6. Variables within an operational environment pose numerous challenges. The context in which these
challenges present themselves adds layers of complexity to military endeavors. Advances in information
systems, robotics, directed energy, propulsion, biological engineering, and other fields are changing the world

2-2 ADP 1 31 July 2019


Today’s Army

at a rapid pace. The Army, as part of the joint force, must contend with these changes as the swift pace of
human interaction and events continues to increase. This environment requires Army units that are trained,
equipped, and led to operate across the competition continuum in situations that may include enemies with
superior conventional capabilities, weapons of mass destruction, and advanced cyberspace and counter-space
capabilities. Our units must operate competently in any terrain and in close coordination with unified action
partners.

2-7. To meet global challenges, the joint force conducts operations quickly and in sufficient scale to shape
an environment, prevent conflict through deterrence, prevail in combat, and consolidate gains to achieve
enduring security outcomes. The Army’s role in pursuit of these objectives is unique and tied closely to the
human dimension.

2-8. Enemies and adversaries are often not easy to identify or locate. State and non-state actors operate
against the U.S. openly and covertly. These actors are often armed with the most advanced weapons while
also using simple low-cost technologies to mitigate U.S. capabilities, exploit vulnerabilities, threaten vital
interests, and promote local or regional instability. The Army operates in and among populations to counter
threats that originate on land but can endanger U.S. interests across multiple domains.

UNIFIED ACTION

2-9. The Army operates with other Services in a joint comprehensive approach called unified action.
Unified action is the synchronization, coordination, and/or integration of the activities of governmental and
nongovernmental entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort (JP 1). Unified action partners
are those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private
sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of operations
(ADP 3-0). These operations ensure unity of effort and create multiple dilemmas for an enemy force allowing
friendly forces to seize and exploit the initiative. The synergy that results from joint force operations
maximizes the capabilities of U.S. military power.

2-10. The complexity and lethality of operations in the land domain demand mastery of combined arms
operations, which includes the full array of joint capabilities. Combined arms operations are the synchronized
application of two or more elements of one Service along with other unified action partners and their
capabilities. These operations are an extension of the historical idea of combined arms—the synchronized
application of arms to achieve an effect greater than if each arm was used separately. Combined arms is not
a new idea. The Army’s history contains multiple examples of how well executed combined arms operations
led to success on the battlefield. Mastery of combined arms operations remains necessary for success in the
21st century. It can only be achieved through demanding and repetitive training.

2-11. The Army depends on and supports air and naval forces across all domains. The Army depends on the
other Services for strategic lift, joint fires, joint intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, and other
capabilities. The Army supports other Services, combatant commands, multinational forces, and other unified
action partners with communications, intelligence, rotary-wing aviation, air and missile defense, logistics,
command and control, and engineering. Collectively, the Army calls these capabilities “Army support to
other Services.” These relationships create joint interdependence or an integration of complementary and
reinforcing capabilities at strategic, operational, and tactical levels of warfare.

2-12. The effects of joint interdependence provide extraordinary support to tactical units. The vast array of
joint capabilities enable the employment of small units in decentralized fashion across vast areas. Tactical
units can employ precise joint fires with lethal and nonlethal capabilities in minutes, delivered by systems
potentially hundreds of miles away.

2-13. In addition to traditional air and maritime threats, the Army and joint forces face growing threats in
the space domain. Ensured access to the space domain increases combined arms effectiveness and integrates
joint capabilities. The Army maneuvers over large distances with small units enabled by communications
that depend on U.S. space assets. Space systems allow the Army access to communications, positioning,
navigation, and timing to deploy and employ rapidly and lethally. Our adversaries understand the importance
of space capabilities and continuously develop means to contest them. Army forces must be prepared to
continue operations effectively when space capabilities are degraded.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 2-3


Chapter 2

2-14. Threats from cyberspace are continuous and increasing exponentially. Our adversaries and enemies
heavily invest in capabilities that can disrupt or deny communications support to U.S. forces while protecting
their own systems. Our adversaries routinely collaborate in cyberspace by conducting coordinated tactical
operations and strategic-level information warfare that threaten U.S. interests. These threats require Army
forces that are ready to operate with degraded communications, reduced situational awareness, and within a
negative information environment. Army forces conduct cyberspace operations as part of unified action
throughout the range of military operations.

JOINT MISSIONS

2-15. The Army gives the combatant commander depth and versatility. Because land forces can conduct a
broad range of operations on a large scale, Army forces offer the combatant commander multiple options to
achieve national military objectives. These capabilities include combinations of armored, mechanized,
motorized, airborne, and air assault formations; attack as well as lift and reconnaissance aviation; special
operations forces; and long-duration sustainment. With their ability to combine diverse capabilities for
specific mission requirements, Army forces provide the combatant commander with tailorable and scalable
force packages to address a broad range of possible contingencies. This simultaneous use of a broad range of
friendly capabilities from across the Army, the joint force, and unified action partners creates dilemmas and
narrows options for both adversaries and enemies.

2-16. The Army provides significant contributions to the accomplishment of the joint force prioritized
missions established in the National Military Strategy. Joint campaigns may require land operations as part
of unified action since land forces often control areas or assets that influence and enable operations in the
other domains. For this reason, land forces are vital during almost all operations, even in places where
maritime or air forces dominate. Joint missions are consistent with the Army’s purpose and long-standing
role in national defense.

2-17. Most wars and conflicts are won by committing land forces. Land forces not only seize, occupy, and
defend land areas, but they often also remain on the ground to consolidate gains until the achievement of
U.S. national long-term objectives. Victory rarely stems from a single, rapid strike; swift campaigns are a
rare exception to the historical norm. Due to the varying nature of war, conflicts often last months or years.
Wars tend to evolve into something quite different from what was originally planned as both sides adapt to
impose their will on one another. Land forces prove the most tangible and durable measure of America’s
commitment to defend its interests precisely because of the effort and potential costs of doing so. The
introduction of land forces signals the Nation’s willingness to protect multinational partners and deter
aggression.

STRATEGIC-LEVEL CONTEXT FOR THE ARMY

2-18. Readiness for ground combat is and will remain the U.S. Army’s first priority. The Army accomplishes
its mission by supporting the joint force in four strategic roles: shaping operational environments, preventing
conflict, prevailing in large-scale ground combat, and consolidating gains. The strategic roles clarify the
enduring reasons for which our Army is organized, trained, and equipped. Army forces are further organized,
trained, and equipped to provide specific core competencies delivering essential and enduring capabilities
aligned with joint doctrine. The Army’s operational concept of unified land operations described in ADP 3-0
is built on the conceptual framework established by the Army’s strategic roles and its core competencies.
Title 10, USC, the National Military Strategy, and DODD 5100.01 provide the overall guidance on the
capabilities that the Army must provide to the Nation. The Army shapes operational environments and
prevents conflict based upon the requirements of combatant commanders. The ability to prevail against any
enemy during large-scale ground combat is what provides the military credibility necessary to deter war.
Every operation must consolidate gains to make temporary operational success enduring and set the
conditions for a sustainable and stable environment. Our non-negotiable obligation to the Nation is to win by
achieving the combatant commander’s operational objective when the Army is committed to any type of
operation.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Today’s Army

SHAPE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTS

2-19. The Army provides unique forces with capabilities to shape operational environments. Shaping
operational environments allows combatant commanders to reassure partners and deter aggression while
establishing conditions that support the potential employment of joint forces. Army regionally aligned
forces—including special operations units, Army Reserve units, and Army National Guard units—assist
partners with internal defense and develop the capabilities needed to deter adversaries and defeat enemies.
(See figure 2-2.) Army forces further develop relationships with multinational partner land forces, share
intelligence, strengthen their security forces, increase cultural awareness, and conduct bilateral and
multilateral military exercises. Through efforts such as the State Partnership Program, Army National Guard
and Reserve units supply unique and dual-trained Soldiers with special skills obtained as civilians to assist
in medical and engineering activities, disaster preparedness, critical infrastructure management, and resource
protection. Together, these efforts allow the Army to maintain a global landpower network that is critical in
shaping operational environments and winning wars. Army forces conduct shaping operations through the
day-to-day actions of its Service component commanders, trainers, advisors, and logistic activities as
specified under Title 10, USC and support to Title 22 and Title 50, USC.

Figure 2-2. Soldiers with special skills

PREVENT CONFLICT

2-20. Preventing conflict includes all activities that deter adversary military actions which threaten allies or
partners and deny them the ability to achieve objectives counter to U.S. interests. A well-trained, credible,
and capable Army reduces the risk of aggression by adversaries because it raises both the risk and potential
cost of military action to their forces. Moving ready and trained Army forces into a region tells adversaries
that the United States is prepared and willing to protect its interests. Partner nations under external threats
understand that introducing U.S. forces alters the regional military balance of power in their favor and
bolsters their resolve to resist aggression. Multinational partners and adversaries recognize that Army
forces—combined with the nation’s joint air, maritime, and space-based forces—are dominant and therefore
are a deterrence to armed conflict. This role meets the objectives described in the National Military Strategy.

PREVAIL IN LARGE-SCALE GROUND COMBAT

2-21. The Army’s capability and capacity to conduct large-scale ground combat is unique and foundational
to its other roles. Only the Army has the capabilities necessary for sustained ground combat anywhere in the
world. The credibility inherent in its ability to conduct large-scale ground combat as part of the joint force is
a critical part of U.S. conventional deterrence. It is a primary source of assurance to friendly nations and an

31 July 2019 ADP 1 2-5


Chapter 2

important factor in worldwide stability. The U.S. Army conducts large-scale ground combat as part of the
joint force. When it deploys and fights, the Army both enables and is enabled by the other Services when
they perform their roles. An Army that can defeat any enemy worldwide requires professionally committed
leadership, well-equipped and trained units, and proficiency in the conduct of joint and multinational
operations. Maintaining the readiness necessary for large-scale ground combat is a difficult and continual
process that consumes significant time and resources. Readiness for large-scale ground combat operations
saves lives.

CONSOLIDATE GAINS

2-22. Operations to consolidate gains make temporary operational successes enduring and set the conditions
to facilitate the transition of control over territory to legitimate authorities. Army forces enable the joint force
commander to capitalize on operational success by following through to ensure sustainable conditions on the
ground. Consolidation of gains is an integral part of winning armed conflict and is essential to retaining the
long-term initiative over determined adversaries. Army forces reinforce and integrate the efforts of all unified
action partners when they consolidate gains. Operations serve a higher national purpose in support of U.S.
interests and are planned and executed to support that purpose at each echelon. A clear understanding of the
higher purpose of the mission and operational environment determines what must happen to consolidate gains
during the course of operations. How well ground forces consolidate gains determines in large part how
enduring the results of operations will be. Effectively consolidating gains increases options for national
leaders and contributes to decisive outcomes. (See figure 2-3.)

Figure 2-3. An enduring Army

WIN

2-23. Winning is the achievement of the purpose of an operation and the fulfillment of its objectives. The
Army wins when it successfully performs its roles as part of the joint force during operations. It wins when
it effectively shapes an operational environment for combatant commanders and when it responds rapidly
with enough combat power to prevent war through deterrence. When required to fight, the Army’s ability to
prevail in large-scale ground combat becomes a decisive factor in breaking an enemy’s will to continue
fighting. Army forces win when the enemy is defeated to the degree that it can no longer achieve their
objectives or effectively contest the joint force on land. To ensure that the military results of combat are not
temporary, the Army follows through with its unique capability to consolidate gains and ensure enduring
outcomes that are favorable to U.S. interests.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Today’s Army

CORE COMPETENCIES

2-24. Core competencies clearly express how the Army
contributes to national defense and joint force operations. The

. Army Core Competencies:

Army’s five core competencies support the Army mission to Prompt and sustained land

ensure forces can achieve the Army’s strategic roles. A core combat.

competency is not a task; it is a capability stated in general Combined arms operations:

terms. Combined arms maneuver

and wide area security.
PROMPT AND SUSTAINED LAND COMBAT Armored and mechanized
. . . operations.

2-25. Prompt and sustained land combat is the assigned Airborne and air assault

function of the Army, directed both by Congress in Title 10, operations.

USC, and by DODD 5100.01. This function is the foundation . .

from which the Army builds its ability to win in combat. It is SIBEGIE, GP S0EMONIE.

the primary function for which the Army organizes, trains, and Set and sustain the theater for

equips forces. Prompt land combat is what requires the Army’s the joint force.

expeditionary capability: the ability to deploy on short notice Integrate national, multinational,

task-organized forces capable of immediately conducting and joint power on land.

operations upon arrival to austere locations. Sustained land
combat requires the Army to campaign with the power to conduct extended operations and continuous
consolidation of gains necessary to achieve the objectives set for the Army by the joint force. Sustained land
combat spans the range of military operations. It requires a force that can sustain its efforts for as long as
necessary and can adapt to unpredictable changes in an operational environment.

COMBINED ARMS OPERATIONS

2-26. All operations are combined arms operations. Combined arms is the synchronized and simultaneous
application of arms to achieve an effect greater than if each element was used separately or sequentially
(ADP 3-0). Combined arms includes Army capabilities and joint, multinational, and other unified action
partner capabilities. Combined arms operations integrate leadership, information, and each of the warfighting
functions. Used destructively, combined arms integrate different capabilities so that responding to one
capability makes the enemy vulnerable to another. Combined arms multiply the effects of Army and joint
capabilities in operations. They require highly trained Soldiers, skilled leaders, and integrated information
systems. Commanders synchronize combined arms capabilities using command and control to employ
combat power to their best advantage.

2-27. Combined arms maneuver is the application of combat power in time and space to defeat enemy
ground forces; seize, occupy, and defend terrain; and achieve physical, temporal, and psychological
advantages over the enemy. Combined arms maneuver seizes, retains, and exploits the initiative. Army forces
apply combat power from unexpected directions, achieve surprise, and render an enemy force unable to
respond effectively.

2-28. Wide area security is the application of the elements of combat power to protect populations, unified
action partners, infrastructure, and activities to deny enemy forces positions of advantage across large
expanses, to consolidate gains, and to retain the initiative. Wide area security includes six stability tasks in
support of a host nation: establish civil security, establish civil control, restore essential services, support
governance, support economic and infrastructure development, and conduct security cooperation.

2-29. Armored and mechanized operations provide the capability to conduct sustained and large-scale
ground combat operations. The Army has the unique capability to employ large formations of armored,
mechanized, and motorized forces that provide protected ground mobility and firepower. These forces can
be an asymmetric advantage when used against an enemy force without comparable capability, and they may
be used to defeat an enemy’s anti-access and area-denial measures when employed from offset objectives.
Armored, mechanized, and motorized forces are an essential part of the joint force as a maneuver force in
close combat. Armored and mechanized forces serve as a deterrent to armed conflict and can deploy
worldwide.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 2-7


Chapter 2

2-30. The Army uses airborne and air assault operations, as part of the joint force, to project large military
forces rapidly into an operational area, sustain those forces in the face of armed opposition, and, if necessary,
defeat enemy anti-access and area-denial capabilities. Projecting and sustaining airborne and air assault
forces requires the capability to secure multiple entry points into an operational area. The joint force
application of airborne and air assault operations for forcible entry gives leaders flexibility and depth to set
conditions. Airborne and air assault operations capitalize on mobility to surprise an enemy force, seize a
lodgment, and gain the initiative. Airborne operations are unique from other operations in that they can
project and deliver operationally significant forces over strategic distances.

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

2-31. Special operations require unique modes of employment, tactics, equipment, and training. Army
special operations forces provide combatant commanders with precise lethal and nonlethal capabilities. These
capabilities include special warfare and surgical strike operations in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive
areas. These operations may be time sensitive, clandestine, low visibility, and high risk. Special operations
forces possess uniquely assessed, organized, trained, and equipped Soldiers. The interdependence of special
operations and conventional forces, gained by the right mix of complementary and reinforcing capabilities,
enhances success throughout the range of military operations across the competition continuum. (See
figure 2-4.)

Figure 2-4. Special operations

SET AND SUSTAIN THE THEATER FOR THE JOINT FORCE

2-32. The Army’s ability to set and sustain the theater is essential to allowing the joint force to seize the
initiative while restricting an enemy force’s options. Setting the theater for the joint force includes the
establishment of access and infrastructure to support joint force operations. The Army possesses unique
capabilities to establish and maintain vital infrastructure and support the joint force commander. These
capabilities include intelligence support; communications; port and airfield opening; logistics; ground-based
air defense; chemical defense; and reception, staging, onward movement, and integration. Sustaining the
theater for the joint force includes theater sustainment and meeting executive agent responsibilities.
Maintaining critical infrastructure—as well as sustaining joint forces, unified action partners, and
multinational forces—is accomplished through the Army’s support to other Services, executive agent, and
Title 10, USC, requirements. The Army uses Army Service component commands, forward deployed forces,
and rotational forces to develop, sustain, and operate this theater structure.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Today’s Army

INTEGRATE NATIONAL, MULTINATIONAL, AND JOINT POWER ON LAND

2-33. The Army has the largest number of headquarters that are joint task force headquarters capable and
can combine all elements of national, multinational, and joint power. Army headquarters are designed to be
the core components that integrate unified action partner capabilities into a Service headquarters or rapidly
transition from a Service headquarters into a joint or multinational joint task force or land component
command. These headquarters provide the capability to plan, prepare, execute, and assess joint and
multinational operations. Army forces support partners with situational understanding, security, and logistics.
Army forces ensure combatant commanders possess the ability to reinforce and sustain land forces rapidly
through forward positioning, theater infrastructure capabilities, and the use of prepositioned equipment and
supplies. Army headquarters and forces help impose order to chaotic situations and synchronize plans,
programs, and efforts necessary to accomplish the mission.

UNIFIED LAND OPERATIONS

2-34. Army forces accomplish their missions through the operational concept called unified land operations.
Unified land operations is the simultaneous execution of offense, defense, stability, and defense support of
civil authorities across multiple domains to shape operational environments, prevent conflict, prevail in large-
scale ground combat, and consolidate gains as part of unified action (ADP 3-0). Army forces defeat enemy
forces, control terrain, protect populations, and preserve joint force freedom of action in the land domain by
applying the Army core competencies. Army operations conducted overseas encompass offensive, defensive,
and stability operations. Within the United States, the Army supports civil authorities through DSCA. If
enemy forces threaten the homeland, Army forces combine offense and defense with DSCA. The effort
accorded to each element is proportional to the mission and varies with the situation and conditions of an
operational environment. (See figure 2-5.)

Figure 2-5. Unified land operations

2-35. During operations, Army forces enable joint force freedom of action by denying enemy forces the
ability to operate uncontested in domains other than land wherever possible. Leaders synchronize the efforts
of unified action partners across multiple domains to ensure unity of effort. Army forces adapt continuously
to seize, retain, and exploit the initiative. Unified land operations create multiple dilemmas for the enemy by
placing enemy forces and objectives at risk. Army forces have the mobility, protection, and firepower

31 July 2019 ADP 1 2-9


Cha

pter 2

necessary to strike enemy forces unexpectedly from many directions creating multiple dilemmas for the
enemy commander. Even when conducting dispersed operations, mobile combined arms teams exercising
mission command can concentrate combat power rapidly to isolate enemy forces, attack critical enemy assets,
and exploit opportunities.

MISSION COMMAND

2-10

2-36. Mission command is an approach that empowers subordinates and is necessary for success in complex
and ambiguous environments. Two hundred years ago, commanders could generally see the entire battlefield
on which they fought as well as the friendly and enemy forces on that ground. This meant that commanders
could personally observe situations, make decisions, and closely control their forces during battle.

2-37. By the time of the Civil War, the growth of armies in size and complexity extended forces beyond the
direct view of one person. Commanders could no longer personally control all the forces under their
command. As a result, American commanders began to practice an approach that favored decentralized
execution. This approach meant using mission orders that emphasized the purpose of an operation to achieve
a desired end state rather than the accomplishment of individual tasks. Subordinate leaders at all echelons
were required to exercise initiative within the commander’s intent to accomplish missions.

2-38. The 1905 Field Service Regulation first codified these ideas. It contained the following passage that
served as an early explanation of the mission command approach:

An order should not trespass on the province of the subordinate. It should contain
everything, which is beyond the independent authority of the subordinate, but nothing
more. When the transmission of orders involves a considerable period of time during which
the situation may change, detailed instructions are to be avoided. The same rule holds
when orders may have to be carried out under circumstances, which the originator of the
order cannot completely forecast, in such cases, letters of guidance are more appropriate.
It should lay stress upon the object to be attained, and leave open the means to be
employed.

2-39. Subsequent versions of our Army’s operations manual have built on this idea. Mission command is the
Army’s approach to command and control. Over time, changes within operational environments required the
Army to decentralize operations to the maximum extent possible. Mission command allows for the
empowerment of subordinates to exercise disciplined initiative and implement decisions based on their
understanding of the commander’s intent rather than a directed order or task.

2-40. Mission command requires leaders at the lowest practical echelon to seize, retain, and exploit the
initiative by directing action under varying degrees of uncertainty. Commanders seek to counter the
uncertainty of an environment by empowering subordinates at the lowest level to make decisions, act, and
quickly adapt to changing circumstances. These situations may lead a subordinate to deviate from the initial
directive as long as it is within the desired commander’s intent. Mission command is based on mutual trust
and a shared understanding of purpose among commanders, subordinates, and unified action partners.
In 1941 Admiral E. J. King stressed the importance of training leaders and units in mission command:

If subordinates are deprived—as they now are—of that training and experience which will
enable them to act “on their own’ —if they do not know, by constant practice, how to
exercise “initiative of the subordinates ”’—if they are reluctant (afraid) to act because they
are accustomed to detailed orders and instructions—if they are not habituated to think, to
judge, to decide and to act for themselves in their several echelons of command—we shall
be in sorry case when the time of “active operations” arrives.

2-41. Mission command requires a command climate in which commanders encourage subordinates to
accept risk and exercise disciplined initiative to seize opportunities and to counter threats, all within the
commander’s intent. Commanders realize that subordinates will make errors. Successful commanders allow
subordinates to learn through their mistakes and develop experience. With an accepting command climate,
subordinates gain the experience required to operate on their own. Using mission orders, commanders focus
on the purpose of the operation rather than on the details of how to perform assigned tasks. This focus
minimizes centralized control and allows subordinates the greatest freedom of action. When delegating
authority to subordinates, commanders set the necessary conditions for success by allocating appropriate

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Today’s Army

resources to subordinates based on assigned tasks and conducting shaping operations that enable their
subordinates’ success.

2-42. Effective operations are possible when commanders have the expertise and communications to
synchronize Army, joint, and multinational combat power and to integrate the effects of unified action
partners. Commanders, supported by their staffs, use the operations process to drive the conceptual and
detailed planning necessary to understand, visualize, and describe their operational environments; make and
articulate decisions; and direct, lead, and assess military operations. The operations process of plan, prepare,
execute, and assess enables Army forces to integrate joint, multinational, and other unified action partner
capabilities throughout operations.

2-43. Commanders cannot exercise command and control alone. The science of control—regulating,
monitoring, and directing unit actions—requires sophisticated and rugged information systems along with a
well-trained staff to employ appropriate processes. Even knowledgeable and charismatic commanders cannot
control everything beyond their immediate surroundings without the supporting personnel, networks,
information systems, processes and procedures, and facilities and equipment. These components, as well as
space and cyber capabilities, help commanders understand situations to make and implement better decisions.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 2-11


This page intentionally left blank.


Chapter 3
Ready to Fight, Prepared for the Future, Determined to Win

[T]hrough all this welter of change and development your mission remains fixed,
determined, inviolable—it is to win our wars. Everything else in your professional career
is but corollary to this vital dedication. ... [Y]ou are the ones who are trained to fight;
yours is the profession of arms—the will to win, the sure knowledge that in war there is no
substitute for victory....

General Douglas MacArthur

The future Army will be ready and able to fight and win in our Nation’s most lethal
wars. Intelligence, speed, power, and endurance will define an expeditionary 21st
century force that arrives to fight, stays to win, integrates and supports joint and unified
action partners, and helps build a better future. Tough, professional, highly trained
Soldiers, guided by the Army Values and Warrior Ethos, remain our core advantage
and ensure we can adapt to any mission. Our ability to anticipate change, learn, and
innovate in the face of uncertainty will sustain our Army as America’s land force for
decisive action.

A VISION FOR TODAY AND TOMORROW

3-1. The U.S. Army is the most lethal and capable ground combat force in history. It has proven this in
multiple conflicts, across a broad spectrum of operations, in various locations around the world, defending
the Nation and serving the American people well for over 240 years. The key to this success has been the
skill and grit of the American Soldier, the quality of its leaders, the superiority of its equipment, and the
ability of the Army—Regular Army, Army National Guard, and Army Reserve—to adapt to and dominate a
complex and continuously changing environment as a member of the joint force.

3-2. As we look ahead, competitors such as China and Russia will increasingly challenge the United States
and our allies in Europe, the Middle East, and the Indo-Pacific region. At the same time, we should expect
these countries’ arms, equipment, and tactics to be used against us by others, including threats such as North
Korea and Iran, failed states, and terrorist groups. Our adversaries’ ambitions and the accelerating pace of
technological change will create challenges and opportunities for the Army’s battlefield superiority.

3-3. Meanwhile, the many demands on our Nation’s resources will put downward pressure on the defense
budget in the future, forcing the Army to continue making difficult choices about how it spends valuable
dollars to meet national military objectives and compelling us to become ever more efficient. A continued
commitment to strengthening our alliances and building partnerships will help offset these challenges.

ARMY MISSION

3-4. The Army mission—our purpose—remains constant: to deploy, fight, and win our Nation’s wars by
providing ready, prompt, and sustained land dominance by Army forces across the full spectrum of conflict
as part of the joint force. The Army mission is vital to the nation because we are a Service capable of defeating
enemy ground forces and indefinitely seizing and controlling those things an adversary prizes most—its land,
its resources, and its population.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 3-1


Chapter 3

3-5. Given the threats and challenges ahead, it is imperative the Army has a clear and coherent vision of
where it wants to be in the coming years so that Army forces retain overmatch against all potential adversaries
and remain capable of accomplishing our mission in the future. As such, the Army Vision, our future end
state, states—

The Army of 2028 will be ready to deploy, fight, and win decisively against any adversary,
anytime and anywhere, in a joint, multi-domain, high-intensity conflict, while
simultaneously deterring others and maintaining its ability to conduct irregular warfare.
The Army will do this through the employment of modern manned and unmanned ground
combat vehicles, aircraft, sustainment systems, and weapons, coupled with robust
combined arms formations and tactics based on a modern warfighting doctrine and
centered on exceptional Leaders and Soldiers of unmatched lethality.

3-6. To achieve our vision, the Army must meet five objectives in the coming years:
Man

Organize.

Train.

Equip.

Lead.

3-7. The first objective is to man. This involves growing the Regular Army above 500,000 Soldiers, with
associated growth in the National Guard and Army Reserve. The Army will meet this objective by recruiting
and retaining high quality, physically fit, mentally tough Soldiers who can deploy, fight, and win decisively
on any future battlefield. (See figure 3-1.)

3-8. Organize is the second objective that ensures warfighting formations have sufficient infantry, armor,
engineer, artillery, and air defense assets. Units from brigade through corps must also have the ability to
conduct sustained ground and air intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; electronic warfare; and
cyberspace operations to shape the battlefield across all domains. Aviation, additional combat support, and
robust logistic support must be readily available to units.

3-9. The third objective is train. Effective training focuses on high-intensity conflict, with an emphasis on
operating in dense urban terrain, in electronically degraded environments, and under constant surveillance.
Training must be tough, realistic, iterative, and dynamic. Continuous movement, battlefield innovation, and
combined arms maneuver with the joint force, allies, and partners must be its hallmarks. This training requires
rapid expansion of our synthetic training environments and distributing simulations capabilities further down
to the company level to significantly enhance Soldier and team lethality.

3-10. Equip is the fourth objective. Equipping the Army means modernizing the force. First, the Army
reforms the current acquisition system. Second, the Army unifies the modernization enterprise under a single
command to focus the Army’s efforts on delivering the weapons, combat vehicles, sustainment systems, and
equipment that Soldiers need when they need it. This modernization includes experimenting with and
developing autonomous systems, artificial intelligence, and robotics to make Soldiers more effective and
units less logistically dependent.

3-11. The last objective is lead. The Army will develop smart, thoughtful, and innovative leaders of character
who are comfortable with complexity and capable of operating from the tactical to the strategic level. We
will build a new talent management-based personnel system that leverages the knowledge, skills, behaviors,
and preferences of its officers and noncommissioned officers. This system, when coupled with more flexible
career models, will enable the Army to better attract, identify, develop, and place these leaders to optimize
outcomes for all.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Ready to Fight, Prepared for the Future, Determined to Win

Figure 3-1. Ready to deploy, fight, and win decisively

3-12. To achieve and sustain these objectives given the uncertainty of future budgets, Army leaders
continually assess everything we do. They identify lower value activities to discontinue and note ways to
improve what we must do to free up time, money, and manpower for our top priorities. Trusting and
empowering subordinate leaders facilitates both reform and greater performance.

3-13. In all these efforts, we will ensure that our Soldiers, DA Civilians, and their Families enjoy the
professional opportunities and quality of life they deserve. From the top down we must also remain
committed to the Army Values. The Army is at its best when the total force works and fights as one team,
and our Army Values, coupled with our Warrior Ethos, guide and serve us well as we face the challenges
ahead.

3-14. Since 1775, the U.S. Army has proven itself absolutely vital to protecting the American people,
safeguarding the Nation, and advancing our interests abroad. This fact remains true today. Our ability to do
so will be even more critical in the future as threats continue to emerge and evolve, becoming ever more
dangerous and more complex. To remain ready to accomplish our mission of fighting and winning the
Nation’s wars, the Army must fulfill the future Army vision. We are confident that with the right leadership,
the proper focus, sufficient resources, and sustained effort the U.S. Army will achieve our vision, remain the
world’s premier fighting force, and serve the Nation well for decades to come.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 3-3


This page intentionally left blank.


Appendix A
Our Army’s Legacy of Service

The story of the United States Army is one of growth, adaptation, and change. The Army
as an institution changes its organization, materiel, doctrine, and composition to cope with
conflict and danger. For these reasons, ensuring that the history of the Army—both during
combat and contingency operations and during periods of peace—is preserved and
understood is fundamental to every Soldier, unit, and command.

ATP 1-20

THE ARMY: SACRIFICE AND VALUE TO THE NATION

A-1. Since George Washington transformed an ill-equipped Army into a professional force at Valley Forge,
American Soldiers have served the Nation by responding to national emergencies, defending its frontiers,
protecting its growth, providing humanitarian assistance, enabling the joint force, working with multinational
partners, and, most importantly, winning its wars. (See figure A-1 on page A-2.) No other profession demands
the profound level of personal sacrifices required of our Soldiers and their Families. For American Soldiers,
the most meaningful line of the Declaration of Independence is the sentence that closes the document: “for
the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually
pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honor.”

A-2. Soldiers explored the Louisiana Purchase, fought to preserve the Union on the battlefields of the Civil
War, and helped build the Panama Canal. They played a major part in winning two world wars, prevented
the spread of communism during the Cold War, and defeated international aggressors in Korea and Kuwait.
They deposed oppressive regimes in Afghanistan and Iraq, provided support to civil authorities at home
during natural and man-made disasters, and remain in contact today to defeat violent extremist organizations
while preparing to win future conflicts in an increasingly unstable world.

THE ARMY FLAG

A-3. The Army’s history is reflected in the 190 campaign streamers that adorn the Army flag. The Army
flag honors all who served and are serving, reminding each American that our place today as the world’s
premier land force was not achieved quickly or easily but built on sacrifices from the American Revolution
through today.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 A-1


Appendix A

Figure A-1. The enduring Army

ESTABLISHING THE NATION

A-4. The birth of the Army preceded the creation of the United States. The Revolutionary War molded the
heritage of service and sacrifice that won our Nation’s freedom and established the Army’s unique
relationship with its citizens today.

REVOLUTIONARY WAR

A-5. Following the initial engagements in Massachusetts, the Second Continental Congress established the
American Continental Army on 14 June 1775. Eight more years of war followed.

ee. 7S ee Cy! es a a

A-6. At the close of the Battle of Saratoga, an American commander took the surrender of a British field
army for the first time. The roots of the victory at Saratoga lay in the militias organized in the American
colonies to provide for their common defense. The Continental Congress, using the militia concept as a
foundation, officially ratified provisions to establish the Continental Army in June 1775 making it America’s
oldest military Service. Between 1776 and 1780, the Continental Army and militias worked together as a
total force to defend the American interior and develop new tactics. American forces lost a number of major
engagements in this period, but they were able to maintain their presence in the field through their unwavering
commitment to prevent the British forces from controlling key areas. In 1781, the mature Continental Army,
commanded by General George Washington and supported by French allies, seized the initiative and
maneuvered to a position of advantage that resulted in the ultimate defeat and surrender of the British at
Yorktown. During the Revolutionary War, the Army earned the 16 campaign streamers listed in table A-1.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Our Army’s Legacy of Service

Table A-1. Revolutionary War streamers

Boston Germantown e Monmouth Savannah

Brandywine Guilford Court House e Princeton Ticonderoga

Charleston Lexington e Quebec Trenton
Cowpens Long Island e Saratoga Yorktown

WAR OF 1812 — EXPANDING TERRITORY

A-7. At the outbreak of conflict with the British, the U.S. Army was small, spread along the frontiers in
small garrisons, and forced to expand quickly. Amateur officers leading poorly trained Soldiers struggled in
the field against the British for much of the war. Eventually leaders such as Lieutenant Colonel Winfield
Scott trained Army units capable of standing up to the British in combat on the Northern Frontier.

A-8. Andrew Jackson used regulars and militia at New Orleans to crush the largest British army sent to
North America. A combination of Regular Army, local militia, and volunteer formations successfully
defended New Orleans from British regiments recently arrived from fighting on Napoleonic battlefields in
Europe. The American victory at the Battle of New Orleans, coupled with naval successes, helped secure the
independence of the young Nation and its expansion to the West. The lessons learned from this conflict
solidified the need for a standing professional force with sufficient capability and capacity to meet the
Nation’s needs. During the War of 1812, the Army earned the 6 campaign streamers listed in table A-2.

Table A-2. War of 1812 streamers

e Bladensburg e Chippewa e McHenry
e Canada e Lundy’s Lane e New Orleans

A-9. The Army gradually grew as it defended the national coastline and protected citizens moving into the
frontier. The Army actively assisted Americans as they expanded westward by providing explorers to map
new territories and engineers to build roads, dig canals, and improve navigation on waterways. The Army
Corps of Engineers facilitated navigation along the inland waterways, allowing inexpensive travel and
movement of goods using the Ohio, Mississippi, and Missouri Rivers and their tributaries. Simultaneously,
the U.S. Army sustained its capability to mount combat operations.

MEXICAN WAR

A-10. In 1846, the Army fought Mexico and extended the nation’s borders to the Pacific Ocean. During the
Mexican War, the Army showed it was capable of waging rapid and decisive campaigns. American Soldiers
struck deep into the heart of Mexico and marched over land to seize the city of San Diego and claim California
as a new territory. The war again demonstrated the need for the Regular Army to fight alongside militia
forces. During the Mexican War, the Army earned the 10 campaign streamers listed in table A-3.

Table A-3. Mexican War streamers

e Buena Vista e Churubusco e Monterey e Resaca de la Palma
e Cerro Gordo e Contreras e Palo Alto e Vera Cruz

e Chapultepec e Molino del Rey

PRESERVING THE NATION

A-11. After the Mexican War, the United States continued to expand. As it expanded, Army forces fought to
preserve the Nation and protect its citizens.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 A-3


Appendix A

CIVIL WAR

A-12. Starting in 1861, the Civil War tore the nation apart. The Army grew dramatically—in size, capability,
and technological sophistication—during four years of war. Forced to wage war on a continental scale against
superbly led opponents, Union forces developed skills in tactics, operational art, logistics, and inter-Service
cooperation that rivaled and sometimes exceeded the European powers.

A-13.On the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg, General Robert E. Lee ordered Major General George
Pickett to attack strong Union defenses on a ridge almost a mile way. About an hour later, after Pickett’s
charge had failed to break the Union line, close to 7,000 Americans in blue and gray uniforms lay dead or
wounded on the ground. The battle, a Union victory, was the last time the Confederate forces seriously
threatened the North. The war, which raged on for another two years, had divided the U.S. Army and the
Nation. To enforce the war’s decision and to consolidate battlefield gains, U.S. Army forces remained in the
South for 12 years after 1865 as part of Reconstruction. During the Civil War, the U.S. Army earned the 25
campaign streamers listed in table A-4.

Table A-4. Civil War streamers

Antietam Cold Harbor Mississippi River Shiloh
Appomattox Franklin Murfreesborough Spotsylvania
Atlanta Fredericksburg Nashville Sumter

Bull Run Gettysburg Peninsula Valley
Chancellorsville Henry and Donelson Petersburg Vicksburg
Chattanooga Manassas Shenandoah Wilderness
Chickamauga

INDIAN WARS

A-14. The Army fought against Native Americans until the beginning of the 20th century. In these bitter
conflicts, Army forces fought some of the finest individual warriors it ever faced. Army forces fought with
all-volunteer forces, including all-black cavalry and infantry regiments. Serving under the flag of the United
States, Native American scouts became vital members of Army units as the wars moved onto the Great Plains.
During the Indian Wars, the Army earned the 14 campaign streamers listed in table A-5.

Table A-5. Indian Wars streamers

Apaches Commanches e Modocs e Seminoles
Bannocks Creeks e Nez Perces e Tippecanoe

Black Hawk Little Big Horn e Pine Ridge e Utes
Cheyennes Miami

BECOMING A WORLD POWER

A-15. By the end of the 19th century, the United States had expanded into a world power. To meet the
requirements of greater U.S. interests around the world, the Army developed expeditionary abilities and
campaign qualities.

WAR WITH SPAIN

A-16. The Spanish-American War marked the first time the U.S. Army sent forces into combat outside North
America. The Spanish-American War of 1898 exposed serious deficiencies within the Army. Mobilization,
deployment, and sustainment were marred by difficulties. However, Spain lacked the resources to counter

A-4 ADP 1 31 July 2019


Our Army’s Legacy of Service

U.S. Army forces. After defeating Spanish forces in Cuba and the Philippines, the Army accepted new
responsibilities as a global expeditionary force and initiated major reforms to improve combat readiness.

A-17. The Army fielded expeditionary forces in joint operations with the Navy, deploying units against the
Spanish in Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines. In the Philippines, American Soldiers seized the Philippine
capital of Manila after U.S. Navy ships had isolated the besieged Spanish forces inside the city. Army forces
remained for several years in the Philippines where they put down insurrections that threatened American
control of the islands and facilitated the establishment of a functional government. Despite the difficulties of
governing new territories and countering insurgencies, the United States had now become a world power and
the Army played a key role in achieving that status. During the war with Spain, the Army earned the 3
campaign streamers listed in table A-6.

Table A-6. War with Spain streamers

e Manila e Puerto Rico e Santiago

CHINA RELIEF EXPEDITION

A-18. Now almost forgotten, Soldiers fought in China during the long period of strife at the beginning of the
20th century. During the China Relief Expedition, the Army earned the 3 campaign streamers listed in
table A-7.

Table A-7. China Relief Expedition streamers

e Peking e Tientsin e Yang-Tsun

PHILIPPINE INSURRECTION

A-19. After seizing the Philippines from Spain, Soldiers fought a bloody counterinsurgency in the jungles of
that archipelago. During the Philippine Insurrection, the Army earned the 11 campaign streamers listed in
table A-8.

Table A-8. Philippine Insurrection streamers

e Cavite e Laguna de Bay e Mindanao e Tarlac

e lloilo e Malolos e San Fabian e Zapote River

e Jolo e Manila e San Isidro

MEXICAN EXPEDITION

A-20. In 1916, when internal conflict in Mexico spread across the border into the United States, Army units
deployed on the border and moved into northern Mexico, clashing with Mexican troops and irregular forces.
During the Mexican Expedition, the Army earned the Mexico campaign streamer as noted in table A-9.

Table A-9. Mexican Expedition streamer

e Mexico

WORLD WARI

A-21. The First World War forced the small and lightly equipped Army to expand to unprecedented size.
Millions of Americans volunteered or were drafted to create the Allied Expeditionary Force (also known as
the AEF). By 1918, the Allied Expeditionary Force became a force capable of defeating the German army.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 A-5


Appendix A

M.E.U,S,E.-A.R.G.O,N.N,E,... 1.91.8,

A-22. The Army’s most important victory in the war was the 1918 offensive campaign in the Meuse-Argonne
region of France. That action saw an American force of over halfa million men attack well-defended German
trench lines. The brutal ground combat lasted for weeks, but 14 U.S. divisions pushed through some of the
strongest defensive positions on the Western Front and successfully seized their objectives. The Meuse-
Argonne Offensive was the largest battle in American history up to that time. It took a huge toll in American
lives with over a hundred thousand men killed or wounded. The victory showed that American Soldiers and
their leaders had the ability to organize for large-scale combat operations and win battles against the best
armies in the world. During World War I, the Army earned the 13 campaign streamers listed in table A-10.

Table A-10. World War | streamers
Aisne e Lys e Oise-Aisne e St. Mihiel

Aisne-Marne e Meuse-Argonne e Somme Defensive e Vittoria Veneto
Cambrai e Montdidier-Noyon e Somme Offensive e Ypres-Lys

Champagne-Marne

WORLD WAR II

A-6

A-23. The war against Nazi Germany, fascist Italy, and Imperial Japan was the largest the world has ever
seen. In a few short years, the U.S. Army grew from a few hundred thousand Soldiers to a force comprising
millions. The United States fielded the largest Army in American history and fought simultaneously in Asia
and the Pacific, North Africa, and Europe in a series of campaigns unprecedented in scope and scale. It was
enabled throughout the war by the largest and most capable air and naval forces ever fielded by a single

nation.

A-24. The 6th of June 1944 will remain one of the most important dates in the history of the U.S. Army. On
that day, 50,000 U.S. Soldiers—as part of a great Allied effort—landed at Normandy in France and fought
courageously against a German foe committed to preventing them from getting off the invasion beaches.
German resistance was intense, but officers and noncommissioned officers inspired their men to fight through
the withering fire and seize a firm beachhead on the European continent. The victory represented an enormous
joint and multinational effort and remains the largest amphibious assault ever conducted. After 6 June, more
than a million Soldiers landed on the beaches and pushed inland, first to liberate France and then to cross the
Rhine into the Nazi homeland. During World War II, the Army earned the 38 campaign streamers listed in
table A-11.

A-25. World War II solidified the need for joint, multinational, and government agency interdependence to
achieve a unified effort. General George C. Marshall’s experience with the challenges of occupying foreign
countries, self-governance, joint interdependence, and coalition building helped establish stable post-war
nation states.

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Our Army’s Legacy of Service

Table A-11. World War Il streamers

Air Offensive, Europe China Offensive Northern Solomons
Air Offensive, Japan East Indies Papua

Aleutian Islands Eastern Mandates Philippine Islands
Algeria—French Morocco Egypt—Libya Po Valley
Antisubmarine Guadalcanal Rhineland

Anzio India-Burma Rome-Arno

Ardennes-Alsace Leyte Ryukyus

Bismarck Archipelago Luzon Sicily

Burma Naples-Foggia Southern France
Central Burma New Guinea Southern Philippines
Central Europe Normandy Tunisia

Central Pacific Northern Apennines Western Pacific
China Defensive Northern France

KOREAN WAR

A-26.In the years that followed World War II, the United States focused on containing the spread of
communism, in a multidecade conflict remembered as the Cold War. The United States recognized the
demand for a large standing Army as the Nation became committed to deterring and sometimes fighting
communist forces as part of a joint and multinational force across the globe. Moreover, this period saw the
Army more formally develop into the current Total Army.

A-27. In 1950, just five years after World War II ended, the U.S. went to war again. In the first real campaign
of the Cold War, American Soldiers rushed to South Korea to stem the tide of the invading North Korean
forces. Ill prepared and at low levels of readiness, the first Army forces deployed to South Korea gave up
ground as North Korean forces seized much of South Korea. Fighting valiantly in the Pusan Perimeter while
supported by other Services, Army forces improvised a defense that prevented North Koreans from seizing
the entire Korean Peninsula.

A-28. As part of a larger United Nations force, U.S. Army forces counterattacked, forcing the North Koreans
back into their territory by October 1950. Intervention by the Communist Chinese People’s Liberation Army
that month pushed United Nations forces back into South Korea. What was a fluid campaign of maneuver
became a stalemate characterized by tough combat in unforgiving conditions. When a ceasefire ended the
hostilities in 1953, the Korean Peninsula remained divided. American Soldiers have remained in South Korea
ever since to deter further aggression from North Korea. America’s continued presence in South Korea
contributed to the emergence of South Korea as a democratic and powerful military and economic ally in
Asia. During the Korean War, the Army earned 10 campaign streamers listed in table A-12.

Table A-12. Korean War streamers

e CCF Intervention e Korea Summer 1953 e UN Defensive

e CCF Spring Offensive e Second Korean Winter e UN Offensive

e First UN Counteroffensive e Third Korean Winter e UN Summer-Fall Offensive

e Korea Summer-Fall 1952
CCF Communist Chinese Forces UN United Nations

31 July 2019 ADP 1 A-7


Appendix A

VIETNAM CONFLICT

A-29. A decade after the armistice in Korea, Army forces fought another Cold War campaign in Asia.
American involvement in South Vietnam had increased since the late 1950s in response to escalating pressure
from Communist North Vietnam. Operations in Vietnam saw many innovations to combined arms operations
including the emergence of air mobility and air-ground operations, special operations and conventional force
interdependence, and decentralized counterinsurgency operations. These operations also highlighted the
challenges of a conscript force reliant on individual replacement to sustain the campaign.

SAS FI CISHSENER SS SSH = = Si NESt Pre Revers)

A-30. The U.S. military presence in South Vietnam gradually grew to over half a million Soldiers. They—
along with South Vietnamese soldiers, seven other multinational forces, and government agencies—
conducted counterinsurgency operations against Viet Cong guerillas and mounted conventional combat
operations against North Vietnamese regulars. Success in these efforts led U.S. commanders to believe that
they and the South Vietnamese forces had made progress toward the final defeat of the threat. In January
1968, however, enemy forces launched the Tet Offensive across South Vietnam. U.S. Soldiers and their South
Vietnamese partners ultimately defeated this large-scale attack, destroying the Viet Cong as an effective
combat force. Over the next three years, the United States slowly turned over the fight to the South
Vietnamese in preparation for the withdrawal of all military forces. By 1973, the United States had withdrawn
all Army forces from Vietnam. During the Vietnam War, the Army earned the 17 campaign streamers listed
in table A-13.

Table A-13. Vietnam Service streamers

Vietnam Advisory Vietnam Counteroffensive, Phase VI
Vietnam Cease Fire Vietnam Counteroffensive, Phase VII
Consolidation | Vietnam Defense

Consolidation II Sanctuary Counteroffensive
Vietnam Counteroffensive Vietnam Summer-Fall 1969

Vietnam Counteroffensive, Phase II Tet 69/Counteroffensive

Vietnam Counteroffensive, Phase III Tet Counteroffensive

Vietnam Counteroffensive, Phase IV Vietnam Winter-Spring 1970

Vietnam Counteroffensive, Phase V

ARMED FORCES EXPEDITIONS

A-8

A-31. The Army faced increasing Soviet threats in Europe and communist global expansion throughout the
Cold War. In 1965, the Army, with support from elements of the Organization of American States, occupied
the Dominican Republic to prevent a communist takeover of the country.

A-32. After the Vietnam War, Army leaders turned to rebuilding and reinvigorating the force. Most
importantly, the Army became a smaller all-volunteer force made up of professional Soldiers highly trained
and equipped with the most modern weapons. Armed Forces expeditions conducted during this period
included combat operations in Grenada in 1983 and the forcible removal of the dictator Manuel Noriega in
Panama in 1989. These operations highlighted the need for the Army to continue to improve joint operations.
During these Armed Forces expeditions, the Army earned the 4 campaign streamers listed in table A-14.

Table A-14. Armed Forces Expeditions streamers

e Dominican Republic e Panama
e Grenada e Somalia

ADP 1 31 July 2019


Our Army’s Legacy of Service

SOUTHWEST ASIA

LIBERATION AND DEFENSE OF KUWAIT

A-33. A crisis in 1990 erupted following the Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein’s seizure of Kuwait. Army forces
mobilized and deployed 500,000 Soldiers equipped with advanced equipment as part of an international
coalition that crushed Hussein’s forces in one of the most lopsided wars in history. OPERATION DESERT
STORM cemented the interdependence of the components within the Army to the joint force. As part of the
Total Army, the Army National Guard and Army Reserve provided unique capabilities essential to the
success of the coalition forces. During actions in southwest Asia, the Army earned the 3 campaign streamers
listed in table A-15.

Table A-15. Southwest Asia Service streamers

e Southwest Asia Cease Fire e Defense of Saudi Arabia e Liberation and Defense of Kuwait

BOSNIA AND KOSOVO

A-34. Beginning in December 1995, Army forces participated in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led
effort to end ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, formerly part of Yugoslavia. Army units enforced the Dayton
Accords as part of the Implementation Force (known as IFOR) in 1995-1996 and then as part of the
Stabilization Force (known as SFOR) from 1997 until 2004, ending the violence and restoring order. The
Army’s ability to project credible force and disciplined professionalism established the conditions for an
enduring political solution.

2 2 Oe ee 2 2 2 2 2 Oe ee ek

A-35. In 1999, ethnic cleansing in the former Yugoslavia led to the commitment of Army forces in a peace
enforcement operation in the province of Kosovo. During operations in Kosovo, the Army earned the 2
campaign streamers shown in table A-16.

Table A-16. Kosovo Campaign streamers
e Kosovo Air Campaign e Kosovo Defense Campaign

WAR ON TERRORISM

A-36. In the aftermath of the attacks of September 11 in 2001, Army forces deployed to Afghanistan and
eventually Iraq. American-led forces drove Saddam Hussein and the Taliban from power in fast moving
campaigns noted for the relatively small numbers of troops and the sophistication of joint operations.
American forces, alongside multinational forces, continue to conduct counterterrorism and stability
operations in both Afghanistan and Iraq to deny terrorist safe havens while promoting regional stability.

A-37. The 14 campaign streamers currently associated with the War on Terrorism are listed in table A-17 on
page A-10.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 A-9


Appendix A

Table A-17. War on Terrorism streamers

Abeyance Iraqi Governance e National Resolution
Consolidation | Iraqi Sovereignty e New Dawn

Consolidation II Iraqi Surge e Transition |
Consolidation III Liberation of Afghanistan e Transition of Iraq
e Global War on Terrorism Liberation of Iraq

See AR 840-10 and the Institute of Heraldry Website for information about Army campaign streamers. (See
figure A-2.)

Figure A-2. The Army through the years

HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE

A-38. Although not considered a battle or a campaign, numerous U.S. Army units have participated in many
humanitarian assistance efforts both abroad and within the homeland. These efforts include, but are not
limited to, support to domestic hurricane relief such as the Hurricane Katrina response, support to domestic
firefighting efforts, and other weather-related assistance efforts after floods and blizzards. They also include
international global tsunami relief such as OPERATION UNIFIED ASSISTANCE in the Indian Ocean;
international medical emergencies; and earthquake relief such as OPERATION TOMODACHI in Japan.

A-10 ADP 1 31 July 2019


vi

1-1

1-1

1-2

1-2

1-3

1-4
1-5

2-1

2-5

2-6

31 July 2019

Source Notes

This section lists sources by page number.

Figure intro-1 photos available at
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/54 18579692 and
http://www.history.army.mil/html/reference/normandy/pictures.html.

“TY Jou don’t dictate ...”: General Mark A. Welsh II, “State of the Air Force Press Briefing
by Secretary James and General Welsh in the Pentagon Briefing Room,” U.S. Department of
Defense News Transcript, 15 January 2015.
https://dod.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript-View/Article/606995/state-of-the-air-
force-press-briefing-by-secretary-james-and-general-welsh-in-t/,

“{T he real object...”: Elihu Root, The Military and Colonial Policy of the United States:
Addresses and Reports (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1916), 351.

“The ultimate determinant ...”: Rear Admiral J. C. Wylie, Military Strategy, A General
Theory of Power Control (Annapolis, MD: Naval Institute Press, 2014), 72.

Figure 1-1 photos available at

https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/8743376241,
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/15227313027,
http://www.history.army.mil/html/reference/normandy/pictures.html, and
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/98 19768066.

Figure 1-2 photos available at
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/95 17310632,
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/9 144023122/,
https://www.army.mil/yearinphotos/201 1/september.html#photol0, and
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/534585299.

Figure 1-3 photo available at https://www. flickr.com/photos/usaasc/863 1806342.

“You may fly ...”: T. R. Fehrenbach, This Kind of War: The Classic Korean War History
(Lincoln, NE: Potomac Books, Inc., 2008), 290.

“To be prepared ...”: George Washington, “George Washington to the United States Senate
and House of Representatives,” National Archives Founders Online, 8 January 1790.
http://founders.archives.gov/documents/Washington/05-04-02-0361.

Figure 2-1 photos available at
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/26432670475 and
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/15 146979780.

Figure 2-2 photos available at
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/16477868430 and
https://www. flickr.com/photos/39955793(@N07/5619372893.

Figure 2-3 photos available at

http://www. ibiblio.org/hyperwar/OnlineLibrary/photos/events/wwii-eur/normandy/nor4o.htm
and https://www.flickr.com/photos/dvids/5805 152453/in/photolist-9QY Vzp.

Figure 2-4 photo available at
https://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/14165572918/.

Figure 2-5 photo available at https://www.dvidshub.net/image/477262/partnered-operations-
secure-southern-laghman.

“An order should not...” 1905 Field Service Regulation.
http://cgsc.cdmhost.com/cdmm/ref/collection/p4013coll9/id/122.

ADP 1 Source Notes-1


Source Notes

2-10 “If subordinates are deprived...”: Admiral E. J. King, CINCLANT Serial 053, 21 January
1941. https://www.usnwe.edu/Portals/16/PCO%20Alumni%20Content/ADM-King-Serial-
053.pdf?ver=2017-10-23-121408-920.

3-1 “TT ]hrough all this ...”: General Douglas MacArthur, “MacArthur’s Address to the Corps,”
12 May 1962. http://www.west-point.org/real/macarthur_address.html.

3-1 paragraphs 3-4—3-6: Chief of Staff of the Army Mark A. Milley and Secretary of the Army
Mark T. Esper, “The Army Vision,” 5 June 2018.
https://www.army.mil/e2/downloads/rv7/vision/the_army_vision.pdf.

3-3 Figure 3-1 photos available at https://www.dvidshub.net/image/2150105/urban-training-
exercise and https://www.dvidshub.net/image/889843/women-serving-uruzgan-province-
afghanistan.

A-l “The story of ...”: ATP 1-20, Military History Operations (Washington, DC: Government
Printing Office, 2014), 2-1.

A-l “for the support...”: The Declaration of Independence. https://www.archives.gov/founding-
docs/declaration-transcript.

A-2 Figure A-1 photo available at https://www.dvidshub.net/image/632045.

A-2 through A-12 Campaign streamer images from the Institute of Heraldry. https://tioh.army.mil.
Historical research from the United States Army Center of Military History.
https://history.army.mil/index. html.

A-10 — Figure A-2 photo available at
https://www. flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/3613912509.

Source Notes-2 ADP 1 31 July 2019


Glossary

The glossary lists acronyms and terms with joint and Army definitions.

SECTION I - ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ADP Army doctrine publication
AR Army regulation
ATP Army techniques publication
DA Department of the Army
DODD Department of Defense directive
DSCA defense support of civil authorities
FM field manual
JP joint publication
US. United States
USC United States Code

SECTION Il — TERMS

combined arms

The synchronized and simultaneous application of arms to achieve an effect greater than if each
element was used separately or sequentially. (ADP 3-0)

defense support of civil authorities

Support provided by United States Federal military forces, Department of Defense civilians,
Department of Defense contract personnel, Department of Defense component assets, and National
Guard forces (when the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the governors of the affected States,
elects and requests to use those forces in Title 32, United States Code, status) in response to requests
for assistance from civil authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement support, and other
domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special events. (DODD 3025.18)

landpower
The ability—by threat, force, or occupation—to gain, sustain, and exploit control over land, resources,
and people. (ADP 3-0)

leadership
The activity of influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish the
mission and improve the organization. (ADP 6-22)

mission command
(Army) The Army’s approach to command and control that empowers subordinate decision making
and decentralized execution appropriate to the situation. (ADP 6-0)

security cooperation

All Department of Defense interactions with foreign security establishments to build security
relationships that promote specific United States security interests, develop allied and partner nation
military and security capabilities for self-defense and multinational operations, and provide United
States forces with peacetime and contingency access to allied and partner nations. (JP 3-20)

31 July 2019 ADP 1 Glossary-1


Glossary

unified action
The synchronization, coordination, and/or integration of the activities of governmental and
nongovernmental entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort. (JP 1)
unified action partners

Those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private
sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of
operations. (ADP 3-0)

unified land operations

The simultaneous execution of offense, defense, stability, and defense support of civil authorities
across multiple domains to shape operational environments, prevent conflict, prevail in large-scale
ground combat, and consolidate gains as part of unified action. (ADP 3-0)

Glossary-2 ADP 1 31 July 2019


References

All websites accessed on 6 June 2019.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to the intended users of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. June 2019.
ADP 1-02. Terms and Military Symbols. 14 August 2018.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS

These documents contain relevant supplemental information.

JOINT PUBLICATIONS

Most Department of Defense issuances are available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/. Most joint
publications are available at https://www.jcs.mil/Doctrine/Joint-Doctine-Pubs/.

DODD 3025.18. Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). 29 December 2010.

DODD 5100.01. Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components.
21 December 2010.

JP 1. Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States. 25 March 2013.
JP 3-0. Joint Operations. 17 January 2017.
JP 3-20. Security Cooperation. 23 May 2017.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications are available online at https://armypubs.army.mil/.
ADP 3-0. Operations. 31 July 2019.
ADP 6-0. Mission Command: Command and Control of Army Forces. 31 July 2019.
ADP 6-22. Army Leadership. 31 July 2019.
AR 840-10. Flags, Guidons, Streamers, Tabards, and Automobile and Aircraft Plates. 15 June 2017.
ATP 1-20. Military History Operations. 09 June 2014.
FM 27-10. The Law of Land Warfare. 18 July 1956.

OTHER PUBLICATIONS
The Constitution of the United States. http://www.archives.gov/exhibits/charters/constitution.html.

The Declaration of Independence.
http://www.archives.gov/exhibits/charters/declaration_transcript.html.

Fehrenbach, T. R. This Kind of War: The Classic Korean War History. Lincoln, NE: Potomac Books,
Inc., 2008.

Field Service Regulation. Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1905.
http://cgsc.cdmhost.com/cdim/ref/collection/p4013coll9/id/122.

King, E. J. CINCLANT Serial 053.21 January 1941.
https://www.usnwe.edu/Portals/16/PCO%20Alumni%20Content/ADM-King-Serial-
053.pdf?ver=2017-10-23-121408-920.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 References-1


References

MacArthur, Douglas. “MacArthur’s Address to the Corps.” 12 May 1962. http://www. west-
point.org/real/macarthur_address.html.

Milley, Mark A. and Mark T. Esper. “The Army Vision.” 5 June 2018.
https://www.army.mil/e2/downloads/rv7/vision/the_army_vision.pdf.

National Military Strategy of the United States of America. 2015.
http://www.jcs.mil/Portals/36/Documents/Publications/2015 National Military Strategy.pdf.

Root, Elihu. The Military and Colonial Policy of the United States: Addresses and Reports.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1916.

State of the Air Force press briefing by Secretary James and General Welsh in the Pentagon Briefing
Room. 25 January 2015. https://dod.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript-
View/Article/606995/state-of-the-air-force-press-briefing-by-secretary-james-and-general-
welsh-in-t/.

Washington, George. “George Washington to the United States Senate and House of Representatives,”
National Archives Founders Online. 8 January 1790.
http://founders.archives.gov/documents/Washington/05-04-02-0361.

Wylie, J. C. Military Strategy, A General Theory of Power Control. Annapolis, MD: Naval Institute
Press, 2014.

UNITED STATES LAW
Most acts and public laws are available at http://uscode.house.gov/.
Title 10, United States Code. Armed Forces.
Title 22, United States Code. Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
Title 32, United States Code. National Guard.
Title 50, United States Code. War and National Defense.
Uniform Code of Military Justice. Available at http:/(www.gpo.gov/fdsys.

WEB SITES

Army photos. Available at http://www.flickr.com/photos/soldiersmediacenter/ and
www.defenseimagery.mil.

The Institute of Heraldry. Available at https://tioh.army.mil/default.aspx.

The National Archives. Available at https://www.archives.gov.

United States Army Center of Military History. Available at https://history.army.mil/index.html.

United States Code. Available at http://uscode.house.gov/.

RECOMMENDED READINGS

“39th Chief of Staff of the Army Initial Message to the Army.” August 2015.
http://www.army.mil/article/154803/39th_ Chief of Staff Initial Message to the Army/.

Army Strategic Planning Guidance. 2014.
http://www.g8.army.mil/pdf/Army Strategic Planning Guidance2014.pdf.

CSA ’s National Guard Association of the United States Speech.
http://www.army.mil/article/155581/Sept__11 2015 CSA_s National Guard Associati
on_of the United States _speech/.

Stewart, Richard W., ed. American Military History. Vol. I, The United States Army and the Forging of
a Nation, 1775-1917. Washington, DC: Center of Military History, United States Army,
2010. Available at http://www.history.army.mil/books/AMH-V 1/index.htm.

Stewart, Richard W., ed. American Military History. Vol. 2, The U.S. Army in a Global Era, 1917—
2003. Washington, DC: Center of Military History, United States Army, 2010. Available at
http://www.history.army.mil/books/AMH-V2/index.htm.

References-2 ADP 1 31 July 2019


References

Wilson, John B. U.S. Army Campaign Streamers: Colors of Courage Since 1775. Arlington, VA:
Institute of Land Warfare, The Association of the United States Army, 2009.

PRESCRIBED FORMS

This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS

Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website at
https://armypubs.army.mil/.

DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

31 July 2019 ADP 1 References-3


This page intentionally left blank.


ADP-1
31 July 2019

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

MARK A. MILLEY
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

‘KATHLEEN S. MILLER
Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army
1919001

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve: To be distributed in
accordance with the initial distrubution number (IDN) 110510, requirements for ADP-1.


This page intentionally left blank.


This page intentionally left blank.


This page intentionally left blank.




