Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
1 May 2026

*Army Regulation 600 –25
Effective 1 May 2026
Personnel—General

Salutes, Honors, and Courtesy

History. This publication is a mandated revision. The portions affected by this mandated revision are listed in the summary of change.
Authorities. This regulation implements 4 USC 4, 10 USC 985, 10 USC 1491, PL 116 –92, 19 FR 1235, 34 FR 19699, and DoDI
1300.15.
Applicability. This regulation applies to the Regular Army, the Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the United States, and
the U.S. Army Reserve, unless otherwise stated.
Proponent and exception authority. The proponent of this regulation is the Chief of Staff of the Army. The proponent has the
authority to approve exceptions or waivers to this regulation that are consistent with controlling law and regulations. The proponent
may delegate this approval authority, in writing, to a division chief within the proponent agency or its direct reporting unit or field
operating agency, in the grade of colonel or the civilian equivalent. Activities may request a waiver to this regulation by providing
justification that includes a full analysis of the expected benefits and must include formal review by the activity’s senior legal officer.
All waiver requests will be endorsed by the commander or senior leader of the requesting activity and forwarded through their higher
headquarters to the policy proponent. Refer to AR 25–30 for specific requirements.
Army internal control process. This regulation contains internal control provisions in accordance with AR 11–2 and identifies key
internal controls that must be evaluated (see appendix D).
Suggested improvements. Users are invited to send comments and suggested improvements on DA Form 2028 (Recommended
Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) directly to armyprotocol@mail.mil.
Distribution. This regulation is available in electronic media only and is intended for the Regular Army, the Army National Guard/Army
National Guard of the United States, and the U.S. Army Reserve.

*This regulation supersedes AR 600-25, dated 21 May 2025.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

UNCLASSIFIED

Chapter 1
General
1–1. Purpose
This regulation prescribes Army policies and procedures for the rendition of salutes, honors, ceremonies,
customs, and visits of courtesy.
1–2. References, forms, and explanation of abbreviations
See appendix A. The abbreviations, brevity codes, and acronyms (ABCAs) used in this electronic publication are defined when you hover over them. All ABCAs are listed in the ABCA directory located at
https://armypubs.army.mil/.
1–3. Associated publications
This section contains no entries.
1–4. Responsibilities
a. Chief of Staff of the Army. The CSA will serve as the Department of the Army (DA) functional proponent for Army protocol. The CSA will establish protocol policy and oversee protocol matters.
b. Director of the Army Staff. The DAS will plan and manage the execution of Army protocol policy, and
advocate for resources for Army protocol matters.
c. Deputy Chief of Staff, G – 2. The DCS, G– 2 will ensure that a representative of the Army Foreign Liaison Directorate is designated to plan the visit of a foreign dignitary to the Headquarters, Department of
the Army.
d. Commanders of Army commands, Army service component commands, and direct reporting
units. Commanders of ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will review saluting policies for their command. Commanders may develop and publish modified saluting policies for congested, high density, or student living
areas where saluting would be highly repetitious or otherwise infeasible.
e. Commanding General, Military District of Washington. The CG, MDW, will—
(1) Serve as the Army subject matter expert on salutes, honors, and ceremonies.
(2) Activate contingency plans for conducting funeral arrangements, interment, and participation by
Servicemembers of the Armed Forces of the United States in the event of the death of the President, a
former President, or President-elect.
(3) Conduct funeral arrangements, interment, and participation by members of the Armed Forces of the
United States in the event of the death of personnel authorized a special full honor, Armed Forces full
honor, special military or official funeral.
f. Heads of Local Protocol Offices or Executive Services. Heads of local protocol offices or executive
services will—
(1) Implement protocol needs in support of their leadership at an official function (for example, a meeting, ceremony, meal, or reception) in accordance with this regulation, training circular (TC) 3 –21.5, military and diplomatic customs and courtesies, and local traditions.
(2) Consult with the local staff judge advocate to determine which events are official and should be supported by protocol.
(3) Work with a coordination team to support official functions and distinguished visits.
(4) Appoint a local escort officer to support the event escort officer for visits by foreign dignitaries and a
foreign spouse, as needed.
(5) Provide guidance to leadership on military and diplomatic courtesies and customs, and historical
knowledge on events repeated over the years.
(6) Provide support before an event hosted by their leadership, to include managing invitations and the
guest list, coordinating event support (logistics, installation services, music, invocation, and so forth), creating event scripts, and producing event products (seat tags, place cards, name tags, menu cards, and so
forth).
(7) Provide support during an event hosted by their leadership, to include event location set-up and flag
support, usher and greeting, reading of narration, and supporting the coordination team.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

1

1–5. Records management (recordkeeping) requirements
The records management requirements for all record numbers, forms, and reports required by this publication are prescribed in AR 25–400–2. Approved Army records control schedules are available on the
National Archives and Records Administration website at https://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/rcs. Retention schedules for Army users are located on the Records Management Division SharePoint Site at
https://armyeitass.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/HQDA-CIO-ISES-RMR/SitePages/Records-Management -Division.aspx. Refer to AR 25–400–2 for detailed records management requirements.

Chapter 2
Salutes, Courtesies, and Display of Flags
2–1. Hand salutes and salutes with arms
a. For instructions on executing the hand salute, see TC 3– 21.5.
b. All Army personnel in uniform are required to salute when they meet and recognize persons entitled
to the salute. Salutes will be exchanged between officers (commissioned and warrant) and enlisted personnel of the Armed Forces of the United States (Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, and
Coast Guard), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and Public Health Service.
c. The junior person will salute first. Accompanying the rendering of the hand salute with an appropriate
greeting, such as "Good Morning, Sir" or "Good Morning, Ma’am," is encouraged. Personnel will not salute indoors, except when reporting to a superior officer.
d. The practice of saluting officers in official vehicles (recognized individually by rank or identifying vehicle plates and/or flags) is considered an appropriate courtesy and will be observed. Salutes are not required to be rendered by or to personnel who are driving or riding in privately-owned vehicles, except by
gate guards (military personnel only) who will render salutes to recognized officers in all vehicles unless
duties are of such a nature as to make the salute impractical. When military personnel are acting as drivers of a moving vehicle, they should not initiate a salute.
e. It is customary to salute officers of friendly foreign nations when recognized as such. The CG, U.S.
Army Europe and Seventh U.S. Army; CG, Eighth U.S. Army; CG, U.S. Army, Pacific; and CG, U.S.
Army, Southern Command, are delegated the authority to establish policies for recognition courtesies prevailing locally for foreign officials. Should inactivation eliminate any of these commands, the authority will
pass down to the next level of command. This authority will not be delegated further.
f. The President of the United States, as the Commander in Chief, will be saluted by Army personnel in
uniform.
g. Civilian personnel, to include civilian guards, are not required to render the hand salute to military
personnel or other civilian personnel.
h. Military personnel under arms will render the salute prescribed for the weapon with which they are
armed, whether or not that weapon ordinarily is prescribed as part of their equipment.
i. Salutes are not required to be rendered or returned when the senior or subordinate or both are—
(1) In civilian attire.
(2) Engaged in routine work if the salute would interfere.
(3) Carrying articles with both hands so occupied as to make saluting impractical.
(4) Working as a member of a detail or engaged in sports or social functions where saluting would present a safety hazard.
(5) In public places such as theaters, churches, and in public conveyances.
(6) In the ranks of a formation.
2–2. Courtesies to the national flag and the national anthem of the United States
a. The flag of the United States is not dipped by way of salute or compliment. The organizational color
will be dipped in salute in all military ceremonies while the national anthem of the United States, "To the
Colors," or a foreign national anthem is being played, and when rendering honors to organizations and
individuals for which the military ceremony is being conducted.
b. The U.S. Army flag is an organizational color and, as such, is also dipped under the situations stated
in paragraph 2–2a. The U.S. Army Ceremonial flag is also dipped when rendering honors to the Chief of
Staff of the U.S. Army, his or her direct representative, or an individual of higher grade, including a foreign
dignitary of equivalent or higher grade.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

2

2–3. Cannon salutes
a. A salute with cannon (towed, self–propelled, or tank mounted) will be fired with a commissioned officer present.
b. Salutes will not be fired between retreat and reveille, on Sundays, or on national holidays (excluding
Memorial Day and Independence Day) unless, at the discretion of the commander directing the honors,
international courtesy, or the occasion requires an exception. Salutes will be rendered at the first available opportunity thereafter, if still appropriate.
c. The salute to the Union consists of one gun for each State. The national salute and the salute to a
national flag are each 21 guns.
d. The flag of the United States, or national color, is always displayed at the time of firing a salute, except as indicated in paragraph 7 – 2.
e. For cannon salutes to be rendered in honor of persons, see paragraph 3–3b.
2–4. Holidays
a. Public holidays. Public holidays established by law and listed below will be observed by the Army
except when prevented by military operations. When holidays fall on Saturday, the preceding Friday may
be considered a holiday by appropriate authority. When holidays fall on Sunday, the succeeding Monday
may be considered a holiday by appropriate authority.
(1) Memorial Day, the last Monday in May. On Memorial Day, the national flag will be displayed at halfstaff from reveille until noon at all Army installations. Immediately before noon, the band, if one is available, will play an appropriate musical selection, and at 1200 hours the national salute (21 guns) will be
fired at all installations provided with the necessary equipment for firing salutes. At the conclusion of the
salute, the flag will be hoisted to the top of the staff and will remain there until retreat.
(2) Independence Day, 4 July. In commemoration of the Declaration of Independence, a salute to the
Union (50 guns) will be fired at 1200 hours on Independence Day at all Army installations provided with
the necessary equipment for firing salutes. When Independence Day falls on a Saturday, special ceremonies or salutes will take place on Saturday. When Independence Day occurs on a Sunday, commanders
may authorize the special ceremonies or salutes take place on that day or the following day.
b. Other. Armed Forces Day will be observed with appropriate ceremonies on the third Saturday in
May.
c. Flags for outdoor display. Garrison flag—20-foot hoist by 38-foot fly, of approved material (see AR
840 –10). The post flag may be flown in lieu of the garrison flag. The garrison flag may be flown on the following holidays and special occasions:
(1) New Year’s Day, 1 January.
(2) Inauguration Day, 20 January every fourth year.
(3) Martin Luther King, Jr’s Birthday, third Monday in January.
(4) President’s Day, third Monday in February.
(5) Easter Sunday (variable).
(6) Loyalty Day and Law Day, USA, 1 May.
(7) Mother’s Day, second Sunday in May.
(8) Armed Forces Day, third Saturday in May.
(9) National Maritime Day, 22 May.
(10) Memorial Day, last Monday in May.
(11) Flag Day, 14 June.
(12) Juneteenth, 19 June.
(13) Father’s Day, third Sunday in June.
(14) Independence Day, 4 July.
(15) National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day, 27 July.
(16) National Aviation Day, 19 August.
(17) Labor Day, first Monday in September.
(18) Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, 17 September.
(19) Gold Star Mother’s Day, last Sunday in September.
(20) Columbus Day, second Monday in October.
(21) Veterans Day, 11 November.
(22) Thanksgiving Day, fourth Thursday in November.
(23) Christmas Day, 25 December.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

3

(24) Important occasions as designated by Presidential Proclamation or Headquarters, Department of
the Army.
(25) Celebration of a regional nature when directed by the senior commander.
2–5. Order of precedence of flags
The following is the order of precedence of flags:
a. The flag of the United States.
b. Foreign national flags. Normally, these are displayed in alphabetical order using the English alphabet.
c. Flag of the President of the United States of America.
d. Flag of the Vice President of the United States of America.
e. State and territorial flags. Normally, State flags are displayed in order of admittance of the state to
the Union. However, they may also be displayed in alphabetical order using the English alphabet. Territorial flags are displayed after the State flags either in the order they were recognized by the United States
or alphabetically.
f. Military organizational flags of the Services in order of precedence:
(1) United States Army.
(2) United States Marine Corps.
(3) United States Navy.
(4) United States Air Force.
(5) United States Space Force.
(6) United States Coast Guard.
g. Military organizational and distinguishing flags within a Service by echelon. The flag for the regimental corps will have precedence immediately before the regimental proponent’s command flag. The regimental corps flag will never have precedence above an ACOM flag.
h. Individual and positional flags in order of rank. For the purpose of order of precedence, the term “individual flags” includes the DA senior executive service (SES) flag.
2–6. Position and manner of display of the Flag of the United States
a. Ceremonies and parades.
(1) The flag of the United States will be carried on all ceremonial occasions when two or more companies or an appropriate honor guard participates. It is always displayed in the position of honor.
(2) When the flag of the United States is carried in a procession with other flags, the place of the flag of
the United States is on the marching right; or, if there is a line of other flags, in front of the center of that
line (see fig 2– 1).
(3) The flag should never be carried flat or horizontally but always aloft and free.
(4) When the flag of the United States is displayed from a vehicle, the staff of the flag will be clamped
firmly to the right front fender.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

4

Figure 2–1. U.S. flag carried with other flags

b. With foreign national flags. When the flag of the United States is displayed with foreign national flags,
all flags will be comparable in size. The flagstaffs or flagpoles on which they are flown will be of equal
height. The tops of all flags should be of equal distance from the ground.
c. From staffs.
(1) When a number of flags are grouped and displayed from staffs radiating from a central point and no
foreign flags are involved, the flag of the United States will be in the center and at the highest point of the
group (see fig 2 –2 for sequence).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

5

Figure 2 –2. U.S. flag displayed in groups with staffs radiating

(2) When a number of flags are displayed from staffs set in a line, the flag of the United States will be at
the right; that is, to the left of an observer facing the display (see fig 2– 1). However, if no foreign national
flags are involved, the flag of the United States may be placed at the center of the line, provided it is displayed at a higher level (see fig 2 –3).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

6

Figure 2–3. U.S. flag displayed in center of line

d. With State flags. When the flag of the United States is displayed with State flags, all of the State
flags will be of comparable size. They will be displayed from separate flagstaffs of equal height set on the
same level.
e. Against a wall.
(1) The flag of the United States, when it is displayed with another flag against a wall from crossed
staffs, should be on the right, the flag’s own right, and its staff should be in front of the staff of the other
flag (see fig 2 – 4).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

7

Figure 2 –4. U.S. flag displayed crossed with another flag

(2) When the flag of the United States is displayed either horizontally or vertically against a wall, the
union will be uppermost and to the flag’s own right, that is to the observer’s left facing the display (see fig
2– 5).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

8

Figure 2–5. U.S. flag displayed against the wall

(3) When displayed on the wall of a stage, it will be placed above and behind the speaker’s stand (see
fig 2– 6).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

9

Figure 2–6. U.S. flag displayed on the wall of a rostrum and on a staff in an auditorium

f. In an auditorium, meeting hall, or chapel. When the U.S. flag is displayed from a staff in an auditorium
meeting hall, or chapel, whether on the same floor level or on a platform, it should be in the position of
honor at the speaker’s or chaplain’s right facing the audience or congregation in accordance with 4 USC
7. Other flags should be placed on the left of the speaker or chaplain; that is, to the right of the audience
(see figs 2 – 6 and 2– 7).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

10

Figure 2–7. U.S. flag displayed with chancel

g. Half-staff.
(1) For occasions and durations of half-staff display of the flag of the United States, see appendix C.
(2) When the flag of the United States is displayed at half-staff, it is first hoisted to the top of the staff for
an instant and then lowered to the half-staff position. The flag should again be raised to the top of the
staff before it is lowered for the day.
(3) The flag is in a half-staff position when it is in any position below the top of the pole. Generally, the
position of the flag is at half-staff when the middle point of the hoist of the flag is halfway between the top
of the staff and the foot. In the case of a flagpole with crosstree or guy cable, the flag should be halfway
between the top of the pole and the top of the crosstree or point of attachment of the guy cables (see fig
2– 8).
(4) In accordance with the provisions of 4 USC 7, when the President directs that the flag be flown at
half-staff at military facilities, naval vessels, and stations abroad, it will be so flown whether the flag of another nation is full staff alongside the U.S. flag.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

11

Figure 2–8. U.S. flag displayed at half-mast

h. Placed in mourning. Flags carried by troops will not be placed in mourning unless ordered by the
President or the Secretary of the Army (SECARMY). When so ordered, a streamer of black crepe 7 feet
long and 1 foot wide will be attached to the staff at the center of the streamer immediately below the
spearhead of the U.S. flag and the organizational flag (see fig 2– 9).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

12

Figure 2–9. U.S. flag with crepe streamer

i. Lowering and folding.
(1) While the flag of the United States is being lowered from the staff and folded, no portion of it should
be allowed to touch the ground. The flag should be folded in the triangular shape of a cocked hat (see fig
2– 10).
(2) For the ceremonies of hoisting and lowering, see TC 3– 21.5.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

13

Figure 2–10. Folding of the U.S. flag

j. At military funerals.
(1) The internment flag covers the casket at the military funeral of any of the following:
(a) Members of the active military force.
(b) Members of the Army National Guard (ARNG).
(c) Members of the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR).
(d) Honorably discharged veterans.
(e) Retired military personnel.
(2) On a closed casket, the flag will be placed lengthwise, with the union at the head and over the left
shoulder of the deceased. When a full-couch casket is opened, the flag will be removed, folded to the triangular shape of a cocked hat and placed in the lid at the head end of the casket and just above the decedent’s left shoulder. When a half-couch casket is opened, the flag will be folded on the lower half of the
casket in the same relative position as when displayed full length on a closed casket. The flag will not be
lowered into the grave, and it will not be allowed to touch the ground. The internment flag may be given to
the next of kin at the conclusion of the internment (see figs 2 – 11 and 2– 12).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

14

Figure 2–11. U.S. flag placed on an open casket

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

15

Figure 2–12. U.S. flag placed on a closed casket

2–7. State and Territorial Flags Display
a. State and territorial flags may be displayed, when approved by commands, on special occasions and
holidays. Such displays must consist of all State and territorial flags. These flags are not authorized for
display by individuals on military vehicles or in personal areas to include billets, bunkers, and tents.
b. No individual is prohibited from the private possession of a flag. However, its display is not authorized in any manner that can be interpreted as representing the United States, its military units, or individuals as members of the Army.
2–8. The U.S. Army Ceremonial Flag, Army Display Flag Display
a. The U.S. Army flag (ceremonial or display) has precedence over all other Army flags. Its display with
streamers, by Army organizations, is encouraged on all appropriate occasions.
b. Organizations authorized the U.S. Army Ceremonial flag or the U.S. Army Display flag, or subordinate units of these organizations, are governed by the following:
(1) Indoor display. Display inside offices or headquarters buildings on occasions directed by the commander of the organization authorized the flag.
(2) Parade and review. Carry in parades and reviews in which other Armed Forces participate when
flags of these services are carried. Whenever possible, carry in all parades and reviews of organizations
authorized the flag.
(3) Other official occasions and ceremonies. Display or carry on occasions when heads of departments
or agencies or other distinguished representatives of the U.S. Government or foreign governments are
present. The U.S. Army Ceremonial flag may be displayed or carried at public ceremonies.
(4) Community relations. Display as determined by commanders to support community relations activities when Army participation is authorized.
(5) Other occasions. Carry or display on suitable occasions not specified above, as determined by the
commander of the organization authorized the flag.
(6) Precedence.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

16

(a) When displayed or carried with flags of Army echelons and no foreign national flags or State flags
are displayed or carried, the U.S. Army flag (ceremonial or display) will be at the marching left of the U.S.
flag. Other organizational flags according to echelon will be to the left of the U.S. Army flag (ceremonial or
display). Distinguishing flags for regimental corps will have precedence over the command flag of the regimental proponent. If the flag of the United States is carried or displayed in front of the center of a line of
other flags, the U.S. Army flag (ceremonial or display) will be on the marching right of the line that is behind the flag of the United States.
(b) When displayed or carried with flags of U.S. Army echelons, foreign nations, or State flags, the order of precedence is the U.S. flag, foreign flags, State flags, U.S. Army flag (ceremonial or display), and
flags of Army echelons.
(c) When several flags (excluding foreign national and State flags) are grouped and displayed from
staffs radiating from a central point, the flags are arranged alternatively on each side of the U.S. flag in
order of precedence to the right and left (observer’s left and right facing flags). The U.S. Army flag (ceremonial or display) will be displayed on the immediate right (observer’s left) and so on, alternating right
and left.
(d) In parades, ceremonies, and displays in which members of the Armed Forces participate, the order
of precedence prescribed in paragraph 2 –5 applies.
2–9. Medal of Honor Flag Display
a. The Medal of Honor flag is a ceremonial flag for indoor use and is considered a personal flag that
recipients may display in their home or office.
b. The Medal of Honor flag may be displayed publicly when the individual is being honored at an official
military ceremony, or the individual is in attendance on the reviewing stand in an official ceremony. If the
flag is displayed on a flagstaff, the flagstaff will be 8 feet tall, but will not be higher than the U.S. flag if displayed at the same time.
c. When the flag is displayed with the flag of the United States, the U.S. flag will hold the position of superior prominence and the position of honor on the right. The Medal of Honor flag will be placed to the left
of the U.S. flag. When viewed from an audience the U.S. flag will be on the left and the Medal of Honor
flag will be on the right.
d. The flag should always be displayed in an attractive, dignified, and secure manner.
2–10. Flagstaff and Flagstaff Heads
a. Flagstaff. The flagstaff is the staff on which a color, distinguishing flag, or guidon is carried or displayed. Authorized flagstaff lengths for the following size flags are as follows:
(1) Flagstaff of national flags are the same length as flagstaffs of accompanying flags (see AR 840– 10).
(2) Flagstaffs for President of the U.S. flag are 10 feet, 3 inches and 7 feet, 9 inches.
(3) Flagstaffs for positional colors, distinguishing flags, and organizational colors are 9 feet, 6 inches or
8 feet. The flagstaff for all flags in a display will be the same length.
(4) Flagstaffs for general officers (GOs) flags are 8 feet.
(5) Flagstaffs for guidons are 8 feet.
(6) Flagstaffs for markers and marking pennants are 7 feet.
(7) Flagstaffs for automobile flags are of sufficient height that when mounted the lower edge of the flag
will fly about 1 inch higher than the crest of the automobile’s hood. Flagstaffs normally are mounted on
the inside of the right bumper support. When this is not possible, the nearest location that does not interfere with the right headlight beam is used. These flagstaffs are not stocked by the Army and are to be improvised locally.
b. Flagstaff heads. The flagstaff head (finial) is the decorative ornament at the top of a flagstaff. The
spearhead is the only finial to be used on a flag in a ceremonial flag line. This does not restrict the display
of a State flag from a staff bearing a State device when national and other State flags are displayed from
adjacent flagstaffs; however, the Army does not provide such devices. Only the following finials are authorized on the flag used by Army organizations:
(1) Eagle (Presidential flagstaffs) (see fig 2 –13).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

17

Figure 2–13. Finial (eagle)

(2) Spearhead (the spearhead is the only device used with Army flags) (see fig 2 –14).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

18

Figure 2–14. Finial (spearhead)

(3) Acorn (markers and marking pennants flagstaffs) (see fig 2 – 15).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

19

Figure 2–15. Finial (acorn)

(4) Ball (outdoor wall mounted for advertising or recruiting) (see fig 2 – 16).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

20

Figure 2–16. Finial (ball)

2–11. Foreign national anthems
During ceremonies, the performance of a foreign country’s national anthem will be followed without pause
by playing the national anthem of the United States. (An exception may be made only when two or more
foreign national anthems are played in succession; then the U.S. national anthem will be played following
the sequence.) The same honors rendered to the national anthem of the United States will be rendered
during the playing of any foreign national anthem. The anthems of the United States and other countries
will not be incorporated into any musical arrangement, composition, or medley and will be played through
without repetition of any part except as required to make both words and music complete. Military personnel in uniform and civilians will render honors during the playing of all anthems as prescribed in appendix
B. The performance of a territorial song at ceremonies will not be played in place of anthems.
2–12. Pledge of Allegiance
a. Soldiers may recite the Pledge of Allegiance when in civilian attire (see 4 USC 4). Soldiers in civilian
attire should stand at attention, face the flag with the right hand over the heart, and may recite the Pledge
of Allegiance. Headgear should be removed with the right hand and held over the left shoulder, the hand
being over the heart.
b. During military ceremonies, Soldiers will not recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
c. At official functions, social events, and sporting events, Soldiers—
(1) When in uniform, outdoors, stand at attention, remain silent, face the flag, and render the hand salute.
(2) When in uniform, indoors, stand at attention, remain silent, and face the flag.

Chapter 3
Personal Salutes and Honors
3–1. Honors
a. Table 3– 1 lists the military and civilian personnel entitled to honors, together with the number of
guns, ruffles, and flourishes, and prescribed music for each.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

21

b. The music indicated in table 3– 1 will follow the ruffles and flourishes without pause. Civilian officials
of the Department of Defense (DoD) and military departments receive the final thirty-two bars of "The
Stars and Stripes Forever."
c. Foreign military officials holding positions equivalent to those of DoD and military department officials
listed in table 3 –1, both military and civilian, will be rendered the honors to which the equivalent U.S. official is entitled, regardless of actual military grade. All other foreign military persons will receive the honors
due their actual grade or its U.S. Army equivalent. In the case of foreign dignitaries who are the equivalent of civilian officials of DoD and military department officials (see para 3–1b), "Hands Across the Sea"
should be substituted for the final 32-bar excerpt from “The Stars and Stripes Forever.”
d. A designated representative of an official entitled to honors will be afforded honors based on the representative’s rank.
3–2. Reduction of ceremonial honors for official visits to field installations
a. In the interest of economy and efficiency, ceremonies such as parades, guard mounts, motorcades,
and other activities involving large numbers of personnel and equipment will be held to an absolute minimum when officials entitled to such honors visit military installations on field trips. In general, full honors
will be reserved for statutory appointees and general or flag officers of the Armed Forces of the United
States (to include retirees), foreign dignitaries, and on occasions when such ceremonies promote international good will.
b. DA officials entitled to ceremonial honors as specified in table 3– 1 will provide adequate advance
notice to the appropriate senior commander of an impending official visit. Notification will include information such as the general purpose of the visit, items or areas of particular interest to the visitor, and
which ceremonies may be dispensed with during the visit. All visitors are encouraged to decline routine
honors unless a ceremony serves a useful purpose. Officials of the DoD and of the other military departments may be expected to conform to this practice.
c. Commanders who receive requests to omit ceremonies will comply with such requests unless special
local circumstances indicate that ceremonies should be rendered, in which case the commander will so
advise the visitor.
d. Normally an aide, duty officer, or designated escort officer will meet important visiting officials when
they arrive and escort them to the field commander’s headquarters, if appropriate, to be welcomed and to
conduct the official business of the visit. Nothing in this regulation will be construed as discouraging formal welcoming ceremonies when planned by an appropriate authority for specific objectives and purposes, such as improving morale or maintaining national prestige, nor does this paragraph minimize regulation protocol observed within the military chain of command.
3–3. When and how rendered
a. General.
(1) Except in the case of the President, a former President, or President–elect of the United States,
honors are rendered only when the persons listed in paragraph 3 – 1 and table 3– 1 are officially visiting a
military installation. Senior commanders visiting their own installations or posts are not normally rendered
honors. Although entitled to honors according to table 3– 1, general or flag officers subordinate in grade to
those on the military installation being visited are not rendered honors.
(2) Honors will not be rendered between retreat and reveille, on Sundays, or on national holidays (except Memorial Day and Independence Day) unless, at the discretion of the commander directing the honors, the occasion requires an exception. The person or persons will be honored at the first available opportunity thereafter.
(3) Only Soldiers assigned to garrison duty render honors.
(4) If honors are to be rendered, the commander (or a person senior to or of the same grade as the
senior commander) will meet the visitor upon arrival at the installation’s entrance and will escort the visitor
to the installation’s exit at departure. If a dignitary senior to the person arriving or departing is already present, the senior commander will detail another officer to represent him. When honors are to be rendered
to a person junior to the senior commander, the latter may detail another officer to meet and escort the
visiting person.
(5) When two or more persons entitled to honors arrive at or depart from an installation at the same
time, only the senior will receive honors.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

22

(6) Any official or officer holding two or more positions (civil or military) that entitles them to several
honors, they will receive only the honors due at the highest grade. The same person will not be honored
in more than one capacity.
b. Cannon salutes to persons.
(1) The time interval between rounds in a cannon salute will be three seconds except as follows:
(a) When honors are rendered at funerals, in which case the cannon salute will be fired at 5-second intervals.
(b) When such interval is in conflict with prescribed safety regulations for the type of cannon employed.
(c) When such interval is not feasible considering condition of ammunition and materiel, number of
guns available, proficiency of gun crews, atmospheric conditions, and other local limitations.
(2) The firing of a salute will begin at the time the person entitled to it enters the installation.
(3) Except as noted in paragraph 3–3b(4), cannon salutes will be rendered only to officers and officials
of four-star or equivalent grade or higher on the occasion of each official visit if requested.
(4) When the cannon salute is an integral part of other honors (ruffles and flourishes and appropriate
music), the band and the firing battery will be coordinated so that the first round of the salute is fired simultaneously with the first note of music. Military personnel being saluted and other military personnel in
the ceremonial party will render the hand salute during the playing and firing. Civilian personnel being
honored and other civilians in the ceremonial party will stand at attention. Personnel on security duty will
not render honors.
(5) In some instances, it may be appropriate to conduct honors at events that do not involve military formations, reviewing officers, or cannons present. The organization may be conducting a significant event
(for example, birthday, ribbon cutting, and so forth) where honors would add to the event. In these instances, honors would be directed to the host, if they are entitled to honors, or special guest participating
(if special guest outranks host). Honors include ruffles and flourishes and appropriate music (see table
3– 1).
c. Honor Guard. See TC 3 – 21.5.
Table 3–1
Ceremony and parade requirements (in order of precedence) —Continued
Grade, title, or office

Number of
guns: arrival

Number of guns:
depart

Ruffles and
flourishes

Music

President

21

21

4

National anthem or “Hail to the
Chief,” as appropriate

Former President or President–elect

21

21

4

National anthem

Sovereign or Chief of State of a foreign
country or member of reigning royal family

21

21

4

National anthem of foreign
country

Vice President

19

None

4

“Hail Columbia”

Speaker of the House of Representatives;
Cabinet member, President pro tempore of
U.S. Senate; governor of a State, or Chief
Justice of the United States

19

None

4

Honors March1

American or foreign ambassador, or high
commissioner while in country to which accredited

19

None

4

National anthem of the United
States or official’s country

Premier or Prime Minister

19

None

4

National anthem of official’s
country

Secretary of Defense, Deputy Secretary of
Defense, Secretaries of the Army, Navy,
and Air Force, or Under Secretaries of Defense

19

None

4

Honors March1

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

23

Table 3–1
Ceremony and parade requirements (in order of precedence) —Continued
Grade, title, or office

Number of
guns: arrival

Number of guns:
depart

Ruffles and
flourishes

Music

Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff; Chief of Staff, Army; Commandant of the Marine Corps; Chief of Naval Operations; Chief of Staff, Air Force;
Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB);
Commandant of the Coast Guard; Vice
Chief of Staff, Army; Assistant Commandant of the Marine Corps; Vice Chief of Naval Operations; Vice Chief of Staff, Air
Force; Vice Chief, National Guard Bureau;
and Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard

19

None

4

Honors March2, 3, or 4

Chairman of a Committee of Congress

17

None

4

Honors March1

Assistant Secretaries of Defense and General Counsel of the Department of Defense;
Under Secretary of the Army, Navy, or Air
Force; Assistant Secretaries of the Army,
Navy, or Air Force

17

None

4

Honors March1

Generals or admirals (4 star)

17

None

4

Honors March2, 3, or 4

Governors of a territory of foreign possession within the limits of their jurisdiction or
American ambassadors having returned to
the United States on official business

17

None

4

Honors March1

American envoys, American ambassadors
having returned to the United States but not
on official business, or ministers and foreign envoys, or ministers accredited in the
United States

15

None

3

Honors March1

Lieutenant generals, vice admirals

15

None

3

Honors March2, 3, or 4

Major general or rear admiral (upper half)

13

None

2

Honors March2, 3, or 4

American ministers resident and ministers
resident accredited to the United States

13

None

2

Honors March1

American charges d’affaires and charges
d’affaires accredited to the United States

11

None

1

Honors March1

Brigadier generals or rear admirals (lower
half)

11

None

1

Honors March1 or 2

Consuls general accredited to the United
States

11

None

1

Honors March1

Notes:
1

Honors March 1: The 32–bar medley of "The Stars and Stripes Forever."

2

Honors March 2: "General’s March."

3

Honors March 3: "Admiral’s March."

4

Honors March 4: "Flag Officer’s March." (This march is the prescribed music for flag officers (admirals) of the U.S. Navy or the U.S. Coast Guard and
GOs (generals) of the U.S. Marine Corps.)

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

24

Chapter 4
Ceremonies and Parades
4–1. Reveille and retreat
a. Time. Senior commanders will set the time of sounding reveille and retreat.
b. Reveille. At every installation garrisoned by Soldiers other than caretaking detachments, the flag will
be hoisted at the sound of the first note of reveille. (See app B for courtesies to be rendered by individuals.)
c. Retreat. At the last note of retreat, a gun will be fired (if available) on military installations, followed by
the playing of the national anthem or sound of “To the Color” (using a drum and bugle corps, a bugler, or
recorded music) concurrent with the lowering of the flag. The flag will be lowered to ensure completion at
the last note of the music. The same respect will be observed by all military personnel whether the national anthem is played or "To the Color" is sounded. (See appendix B for courtesies to be rendered by
individuals.) Additional information regarding Army ceremonial music is available on the U.S. Army band
website at https://www.usarmyband.com.
d. Gun salute. Commanders are encouraged to use sub-caliber ammunition devices where possible
when firing salutes for reveille and retreat. Questions on using sub-caliber devices (such as brass artillery
shell casings adapted to fire 10–gauge shotgun shells) may be directed to the Commander, U.S. Army
Fires Center of Excellence (ATZR –F), 6322 NW Currie Road, Fort Sill, OK 73503 – 7971.
4–2. Precedence of Soldiers at parades and reviews
a. For the conduct of parades and reviews, see TC 3 – 21.5.
b. During ceremonial occasions, except for funerals, Soldiers ordinarily are arranged from right to left in
line, oldest to youngest lineage, subject to the discretion of the commander of troops.
c. In reviews in which two or more branches are present, units of various branches will be posted at the
discretion of the commander of troops.
d. In parades and in ceremonies on shore in which several Services are participating, precedence
should be according to paragraph 4–2e, without regard to the relative grades of the commanding officers
of the detachments. A member of the senior Service present will bear the national colors, and the organizational colors of the Services represented will be carried in order of seniority from right to left as viewed
from the rear.
e. Members of the Armed Forces of the United States and Merchant Marine midshipmen will take precedence in the following order during formations in which members thereof may participate, except as indicated in paragraph 4–2e(18):
(1) Cadets, United States Military Academy.
(2) Midshipmen, United States Naval Academy.
(3) Cadets, United States Air Force Academy.
(4) Cadets, United States Coast Guard Academy.
(5) Midshipmen, United States Merchant Marine Academy.
(6) U.S. Army.
(7) U.S. Marine Corps.
(8) U.S. Navy.
(9) U.S. Air Force.
(10) U.S. Space Force.
(11) Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS).
(12) U.S. Coast Guard.
(13) USAR.
(14) Marine Corps Reserve.
(15) Naval Reserve.
(16) Air National Guard of the United States.
(17) Air Force Reserve.
(18) Coast Guard Reserve.
(19) Other training organizations of the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, and Coast
Guard, in that order. School cadet corps not organized in accordance with 10 USC 2031 and 10 USC
2102 do not fall within these categories.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

25

(20) During any period when the U.S. Coast Guard operates as a part of the U.S. Navy, the cadets,
United States Coast Guard Academy, and members of the U.S. Coast Guard and Coast Guard Reserve
are upgraded in precedence to immediately follow their Navy counterparts (the midshipmen of the United
States Naval Academy and members of the U.S. Navy and Naval Reserve, respectively).
4–3. Display of general officer flags at events and ceremonies
a. For ceremonies and event flag lines, display only the GO flags of those GOs actively participating in
the event, such as the host or presiding official, or speaker.
b. If there is more than one GO or SES participating of the same grade (of the same Service), display
only one flag of the grade. Flags will not be displayed in a flag line for GOs just in attendance.
c. If there is more than one GO or SES participating in the event, and they are from different Services,
both flags are displayed.
d. Positional flags take precedence over individual flags. It is incorrect to display a four-star personal
flag for the CSA or Vice Chief of Staff of the Army. When these individuals visit an installation or agency,
someone in the official party normally carries a positional flag for use if the principal is hosting, or actively
participating, in a ceremony while on the installation.
4–4. Display of retired general officer flags
Retired GOs of the Regular Army, ARNGUS, and USAR may display their individual flags privately in their
homes. Public display of individual flags is prohibited except when the officer is being honored at an official military ceremony, or the officer has an official role in the ceremony and another flag depicting his or
her grade is not already displayed. Display of individual flags to represent other than the GO participating
in the ceremony is prohibited.
4–5. Participation of foreign Soldiers in parades
a. When foreign Soldiers are invited by U.S. forces to participate in parades, they will be assigned a
position of honor ahead of U.S. Soldiers. As a special compliment, a small escort of honor composed of
U.S. Soldiers will precede the foreign Soldiers. Police or Special Forces may be assigned to clear the line
of march, and the grand marshal and his staff should lead the parade.
b. On occasions when Soldiers of more than one foreign nation participate the order of precedence will
be decided by the grand marshal. The normal method of fixing this precedence is as follows:
(1) When the parade or ceremony is in honor of a particular nation, for example, a celebration of a national holiday, that nation’s Soldiers should be assigned a position in the line ahead of all others.
(2) On occasions other than described in paragraph 4–5b(1), assignment may be made by the relative
grades of the commanders of the forces from which parade detachments are drawn. When this method
does not readily apply, precedence may be fixed by—
(a) Relative grades of the commanders of the parade detachments.
(b) Alphabetical order in the English language of the names of the nations concerned.
4–6. The Army song
“The Army Goes Rolling Along" is the official song of the U.S. Army. The Army song concludes all reviews, parades, and honor guard ceremonies. Individuals will stand at attention and sing the lyrics of the
Army song when the Army song is played. Individuals will stand at attention during the playing of official
songs of other Services. For the lyrics to the Army song and a guide to Army ceremonial music, visit the
U.S. Army band website at https://www.usarmyband.com.

Chapter 5
Courtesy Visits within the Army
5–1. Visiting by newly arrived or departing officers
Newly arriving or departing officers should ask the installation or unit adjutant which courtesy visits should
be made.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

26

5–2. On New Year’s Day
It is customary for all officers of a unit, organization, or installation to call upon the commanding officer on
New Year’s Day. The commander may designate a convenient hour and place for receiving such visits or
omit the visit if desired. Commanders may exercise the option to have such visits take place on a day
other than New Year’s Day if deemed more practical.

Chapter 6
Interservice and Military–Civilian Visits
6–1. General
The interchange of courtesy visits among Army, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, and Marine Corps officers
opens the way to official and social courtesy among the members of the Services and furthers mutual understanding.
6–2. Change of station of a unit
a. When an organization or unit is moved to an installation or facility of any Service of the United States
or a friendly nation, a commanding officer of the organization will make and receive the appropriate courtesy visits on behalf of their command unless other arrangements are made by mutual agreement of the
commanders involved. Preliminary arrangements will usually be made by adjutants or aides of the two
commanders and generally the commander of lesser rank will make the initial visit.
b. When an organization or unit as such is moved from an installation or facility of any Service of the
United States or of a friendly nation, the commanding officer of the departing unit, if they are of equal or
lesser grade than the senior commander, will make the appropriate courtesy visit on behalf of their command unless other arrangements are made by mutual agreement between the commanders involved. If
the unit commander is of higher grade, the senior commander will make the courtesy visit.
6–3. Official visits between commanding officers and civil officials
a. Upon arrival at the capitol of a U.S. territory or possession having a governor general or governor
commissioned as such by the President, the ranking officer will pay an official call on the governor general or governor within 24 hours after arrival. Similar visits will be made whenever a governor general or
governor takes office. The provisions of this paragraph may be modified by agreement with the governor
general or governor.
b. Upon the official arrival of U.S. Soldiers in a foreign municipality or locality where U.S. diplomatic or
consular representatives are stationed, the ranking officer will exchange official visits with the ranking diplomatic and the ranking consular representatives. Prior notice of such visits should be furnished when
possible. Commanding officers of the Army will make the first visit to diplomatic officials of the rank of
charge d’affaires and above. An individual officer on official business will pay calls on diplomatic and consular officials in a like manner.

Chapter 7
Deaths and Funerals
7–1. General
a. See AR 638 –2 for policy governing training and management of funeral honors details as a part of
the Army Mortuary Affairs Program.
b. See AR 638 –8 for Army casualty reporting procedures and specific notification requirements of the
Army Casualty Program.
c. Action will be taken to render the honors prescribed in this chapter immediately upon receipt of official notification or the receipt of information through radio, television, or other news media of the death of
any person entitled to such honors. The commanders of each military installation at or through which a
funeral honors detail for a veteran is provided pursuant to 10 USC 1491 (as amended by subsection (a)),
shall maintain and carry out a plan for the provision, upon request, of full military funeral honors at funerals of veterans for whom a funeral honors detail is authorized in that section. Each plan of an installation
will include the following:

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

27

(1) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with the requirements applicable to the composition of funeral
honors detail in 10 USC 1491(b) (as so amended).
(2) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with the requirements for ceremonies for funerals in 10 USC
1491(c).
(3) In addition to the ceremonies required pursuant to subparagraph 7–1b, the provision of a gun salute, if otherwise authorized, for each funeral by appropriate personnel, including personnel of the installation, members of the Reserve Components of the Armed Forces residing in the vicinity of the installation
who are ordered to funeral honors duty, or members of veterans organizations or other organizations referred to in 10 USC 1491(b)(2).
7–2. Death notice for the President, a former President, or President–elect
a. The CG, MDW activates contingency plans for the conduct of funeral arrangements, interment, and
participation by members of the Armed Forces of the United States.
b. On the day after receipt of notification of death of the President, a former President, or President–
elect of the United States (unless this day falls upon a Sunday or holiday, in which case the honors will be
rendered on the day following the Sunday or holiday), the CG, MDW will require the following:
(1) One gun to be fired every half hour, beginning at reveille and ending at retreat. Uniformed personnel
will not salute.
(2) All Soldiers at Army installations and the cadets of the United States Military Academy to be formed
and notified of the death.
c. On the day of interment—
(1) A 21–gun salute will be fired commencing at noon on Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall. Guns will be
fired at one-minute intervals. Uniformed personnel will not salute.
(2) An additional salute of a number of guns equal to the number of States of the Union will be fired at
retreat at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall. This salute will be fired at 5-second intervals immediately following lowering of the flag. Uniformed personnel will not salute.
7–3. Death notice of the Vice President
a. On the day after receipt of notification of the death of the Vice President of the United States or a former Vice President (unless this day falls upon a Sunday or holiday, in which case the honors will be rendered on the day after the Sunday or holiday), the CG, MDW will order a 19–gun salute to be fired at
noon on Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall.
b. On the day of interment, a 19–gun salute will be fired at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall. Guns will
be fired at one-minute intervals. Uniformed personnel will not salute.
7–4. Death announcement of certain other officials
a. Upon the death of the Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or the SECARMY, the
same honors will be rendered as prescribed in paragraph 7 – 3.
b. Upon the death of any other person who was entitled to a cannon salute, with the exception of those
persons specifically provided for in paragraphs 7 –3 and 7 –4, and whenever it is desired to render honors
other than those prescribed, the message announcing the death will so specify. The number of guns to
which the official or functionary is entitled as a salute will be fired at noon on the day after receipt of the
official notification of death (unless this day falls on a Sunday or holiday, in which case the honors will be
rendered on the day after the Sunday or holiday), and again at noon on the day of the funeral (see table
3– 1).
7–5. Funeral of general officer
a. The message announcing the death of a GO in active service will specify the installation or installations at which a cannon salute will be fired. A one-minute gun salute limited to the number of rounds to
which the officer was entitled (table 3 – 1) will be fired at noon on the day after the receipt of the message.
If this day falls on a Sunday or holiday, the honors will be rendered on the day after the Sunday or holiday. Personnel will not salute.
b. The military installation directed to do so in the DA message will fire a gun salute (at one-minute intervals) equal to the number of rounds to which the officer was entitled (table 3 –1) at noon on the day of
the funeral. Personnel will not salute.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

28

c. During the religious grave site service, the chaplain will pause before the final benediction at which
time a gun salute corresponding to the grade of the deceased (table 3 –1) will be fired with a 5-second interval between rounds; the chaplain will then pronounce the final benediction. At its completion, a sevenperson firing party will fire three volleys, to be followed by “Taps.” Individuals will render courtesies as prescribed in appendix B.
7–6. Remains of flag officer or general officer brought ashore
a. If the remains of a flag officer of the Navy or a GO are brought ashore in the vicinity of a military installation and the funeral takes place in the vicinity of the installation, the flag will be displayed at halfstaff, and a one-minute gun salute will be fired at noon on the day of the funeral.
b. The number of guns will be that to which the officer was entitled as a salute (see table 3– 1).
7–7. Funeral of civil functionary
a. In the case of the funeral at or near a military installation of a civil functionary who was entitled to a
cannon salute, the flag will be displayed at half-staff and a one-minute gun salute will be fired at noon on
the day of the funeral.
b. The number of guns will be that to which the functionary was entitled as a salute (see table 3 –1).
7–8. National flag at half-staff
See appendix C. The SECARMY has approval authority for all requests not covered in appendix C.
7–9. Military funerals
Military funerals will be conducted in accordance with TC 3– 21.5. The funeral will be under the supervision of the senior commander or their representative. See appendix C of this regulation and TC 3– 21.5
for courtesies to be rendered.
7–10. Mourning brassards
See AR 670 – 1.
7–11. Draping of flags
See AR 840 – 10 and TC 3 – 21.5.
7–12. Funeral escorts
a. A funeral escort will be formed and marched as prescribed in TC 3 – 21.5.
b. The composition and commander of the funeral escort for the President, a former President, a President–elect, the Vice President, former Vice President, the Secretary of Defense or a former Secretary of
Defense, the Deputy Secretary of Defense or a former Deputy Secretary of Defense, SECARMY or former SECARMY, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or a former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or former Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
the Chief of Staff or a former Chief of Staff, Army, for a General of the Army, and for the Sergeant Major
of the Army, will be as directed by the SECARMY.
c. Commanders of funeral escorts of other officers will be officers of the same grade as the deceased
or of a higher grade, or if none are present, as directed by the immediate commanding officer of the deceased.
d. The composition and commander of the funeral escort for a cadet of the United States Military Academy will be as prescribed by the superintendent of the United States Military Academy. When the death
or funeral service occurs elsewhere, the composition and commander of the escort will be the same as
that for a lieutenant.
e. Funeral escorts for warrant officers will be commanded by a lieutenant or higher; for sergeant
through sergeant major, by a noncommissioned officer (NCO) of equal or higher grade; for all other
grades by a sergeant or as directed by the immediate commanding officer of the deceased.
f. The composition of funeral escorts of honor for persons other than those listed in paragraph 7–12b
will be determined by each commander of the deceased. The following composition is furnished for guidance only and may be changed locally as appropriate:

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

29

(1) CSA and five-star generals may receive a special military funeral: ten companies plus a band (normally reinforced). Such Soldiers may be furnished by any of the Armed Services (including the U.S. Coast
Guard and cadets from the Service academies, where available).
(2) Retired Chiefs of Staff of the Army and four-star generals may receive a special full honor funeral
consisting of four companies from the officer’s Service, plus a band.
(3) The Sergeant Major of the Army or former Sergeants Major of the Army may receive a full honor
funeral consisting of one company (normally two platoons) with band and a command sergeant major as
NCO in charge.
(4) Three–star generals through colonels may receive a full honor funeral consisting of one company
(normally two platoons) with band. GOs will also receive a cannon salute commensurate with grade.
(5) Lieutenant colonels through warrant officers may receive a full honor funeral consisting of one platoon with a band.
(6) Command sergeants major and sergeants major may receive a full honor funeral consisting of one
platoon with a band (or recorded music), and a command sergeant major or sergeant major as NCO in
charge.
(7) All other enlisted personnel, cadets, and personnel in the delayed entry program may receive a funeral consisting of an NCO in charge, firing party, pallbearers, and bugler (or recorded bugle music).
7–13. Authority
DoDI 1300.15 establishes policy to govern support for military funerals.
7–14. Policy
It is DA policy to provide military funeral honors for all present and former military personnel as follows:
a. Soldiers in active duty status, retirees, and recipients of the Medal of Honor or the Prisoner of War
Medal. Full military funeral honors, consisting of a nine-member team [six pallbearers and/or firing party, a
chaplain, an officer and/or NCO in charge, and a bugler (if available)]. The team serves as pallbearers,
the firing party, folds and presents the American flag to the next of kin, and plays “Taps.” The decedent’s
parent military Service will present the flag. Military funeral honors for retirees are the same as for active
duty Soldiers (resources permitting). Medal of Honor recipients will receive full military honors regardless
of status.
b. Veterans. All veterans are entitled to a service detail consisting of at least two uniformed military
members, at least one of whom will be from the parent Service of the veteran. The team will fold the
American flag and the parent Service representative will present it to the next of kin. Also, every effort will
be made to obtain a live bugler to play “Taps.” Otherwise, the team will play “Taps” using an electronic
recording. Full military funeral honors will be provided to a veteran who—
(1) Is first interred or first inurned in Arlington National Cemetery on or after the date of the enactment
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
(2) Was awarded the Medal of Honor or the Prisoner of War Medal.
(3) Is not entitled to full military honors by the grade of that veteran.
(4) Is provided on a military installation.
c. Resources. Subject to subparagraphs 7–14a and 7–14b, Chiefs of Casualty Assistance Centers
(CACs), and commanders designated by the CNGB and the Chief of Army Reserve (CAR) determine the
availability of their resources as they pertain to military funeral honors support, the composition of the burial honor details, and any restrictions relating to military honors (see AR 638 –2).
d. One time only. A military funeral honors ceremony will be provided to eligible beneficiaries, upon request, pursuant to 10 USC 1491. Funeral honors will only be rendered one time for each eligible beneficiary. Military funeral honors rendered at a memorial service for those Servicemembers declared deceased and remains not recovered may be re-rendered at the funeral when the deceased Servicemember’s remains are recovered and identified.
7–15. Service responsibility for burial honors
a. The National Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2000 provides for the rendering of military
funeral honors. Military funeral honors are a statutory entitlement. Eligible beneficiaries are active duty
members, retirees, veterans (as defined by 38 USC 101), and deceased members and former members
of the Selected Reserve (using the burial flag eligibility criteria in 38 USC 2301).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

30

b. Commanders will ensure the military funerals are provided to all eligible former Soldiers, when requested. Commanders are permitted to provide military funeral honors for members of other Services;
however, the parent Service of the deceased veteran has the ultimate responsibility for rendering military
funeral honors. The rendering of military funeral honors is a total force commitment. Participation by the
Reserve Components is encouraged.
7–16. Use of Ready Reserve
Members of the Ready Reserve may volunteer to perform funeral honors or the preparation for such honors as a Federal function. Such duty will be with the consent of the member and may be in a paid or unpaid status.
a. Pay, allowances, travel, and transportation expense reimbursements, when appropriate, will be paid
from appropriated funds and paid in accordance with the applicable chapters of 37 USC and the Joint
Travel Regulation.
b. Pay, allowances, and service credit for Ready Reserve members will be based on the duty category
in which the member is performing funeral honors and the preparation for such honors.
c. Funeral honors and the preparation for funeral honors may be performed by members of the Ready
Reserve in one of the following duty categories as described in DoDI 1215.06:
(1) Active duty other than for training.
(2) Full-time National Guard duty other than training duty.
(3) Funeral honors duty as specified in 10 USC 12503 or in 32 USC 115 in the case of members of the
ARNGUS.
d. Members of the Ready Reserve performing funeral honors in funeral honors duty status may receive
service credit under 10 USC 12732 and, if authorized by the SECARMY, the allowance under 37 USC
495 for any day on which the member performs at least 2 hours of such duty.
e. Members of the Ready Reserve performing funeral honors in funeral honors duty status may be reimbursed for travel and transportation expenses incurred in conjunction with such duty as authorized in
37 USC, Chapter 7 if such duty is performed at a location fifty miles or more from the member’s residence.
f. The duty category in which funeral honors and the preparation for funeral honors are performed will
be determined by the SECARMY, but in no case may the performance of funeral honors or the preparation for such honors be considered a period of drill or training.
g. Members of the ARNG may not be ordered to perform funeral honors in any duty status without the
consent of the Governor of the State or territory or the CG of the National Guard of the District of Columbia or other appropriate authority of the State, territory, or District of Columbia.
h. Ready Reserve members performing funeral honors will be entitled to medical benefits authorized for
the duty status in which such honors are performed. Members of the Ready Reserve in funeral honor duty
status under 10 USC 12503 or 32 USC 115 will be entitled to benefits under 10 USC 1074a.
7–17. Authorized Provider Partnership Program
a. The Authorized Provider Partnership Program is a DoD program to train individuals who are not in
the Military Services and who are not employees of the United States Government to augment the uniformed members of a military funeral honors detail (see DoDI 1300.15). CAC chiefs and commanders
designated by the CNGB and CAR will establish ongoing liaison and formal agreements with local authorized providers who are willing to participate in providing military funeral honors. Authorized providers include veterans service organizations and other appropriate individuals and organizations which support
the rendering of military funeral honors, in accordance with DoDD 1300.15.
b. Before recognizing an individual as an authorized provider, CAC chiefs and commanders designated
by the CNGB and CAR will provide initial training to ensure a professional, dignified, and coordinated delivery of military funeral honors in accordance with the Army ceremony, standards, and procedures. CAC
chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR will provide periodic training for authorized
providers according to TC 3– 21.5 for military funeral honors for the basic ceremony.
c. Upon completion of training, CAC chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR may
approve advance reimbursement to authorized providers for their reasonable expenses related to the delivery of funeral honors, provide them with honor guard equipment, and grant them access to military
clothing sales stores for civilian uniforms, decorations, and insignia in accordance with law and DoD

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

31

policy. CAC chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR have discretion to determine the
appropriateness of requests for support from authorized providers.
d. An authorized provider who has completed training will be recognized with presentation of the Army
Military Funeral Honors Certificate, available at https://www.militaryonesource.mil/.
e. The recognized provider may be used as an additional team member and complement a military funeral honors detail by rendering additional elements of honors such as firing party, pallbearers, bugler, or
color guard. Authorized providers are considered government employees for the purposes of liability and
workers compensation when augmenting military funeral honors detail in accordance with 10 USC 1588.
A uniformed Army officer or NCO will always be in charge of the detail and act as the Army representative.
f. CAC chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR must document the recognition of
an individual as an authorized provider. Recognition as an authorized provider is Service–specific. A prospective authorized provider must secure the same status from each military Service that they desire to
participate with unless there is an agreement between Services to accept the other’s recognition (see
DoDI 1300.15).
7–18. Reimbursement of expenses for authorized providers
a. CAC chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR may reimburse authorized providers for participating in the performance of military funeral honors. OF 1164 (Claim for Reimbursement for
Expenditures on Official Business), will be used by authorized providers to submit expense claims in accordance with DoD Financial Management Regulation (DoD 7000.14 –R), volume 9. The parent Service
of the honored veteran will be responsible for the processing and payment of claims of authorized providers (see DoDI 1300.15).
b. CAC chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR may only approve reimbursement
to authorized providers for expenses incurred while augmenting a military funeral honors detail if such approval precedes the incurring of any expenses, in accordance with 10 USC 1491.
c. Covered expenses must be in direct support of the funeral detail and include, but are not limited to,
fuel (not mileage), parking fees, tolls, public transportation, occasional meals, and other related expenditures.
d. CAC chiefs and commanders designated by the CNGB and CAR may provide Government transportation instead of the use of privately-owned vehicles.
e. In the rare case that an authorized provider approved to augment a military funeral honors detail requires travel that necessitates overnight accommodations, the CAC chief or commander designated by
the CNGB or CAR must place the authorized provider on invitational travel authorization prior to travel.
7–19. Denial of funeral honors
The Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) has been delegated responsibility
and authority to act on behalf of the SECARMY concerning the denial of funeral honors in accordance
with 10 USC 985 (see AR 638– 8). Military funeral honors will be denied for the following reasons:
a. Pursuant to 10 USC 985, military honors are prohibited at the funeral or burial of a person who has
been—
(1) Convicted of a capital offense under Federal or State law for which the person was sentenced to
death or life imprisonment without parole.
(2) Found to have committed a capital offense under Federal or State law, but was not convicted due to
unavailability (death or flight to avoid prosecution).
(3) Convicted of an offense under Federal or State law that requires registration as a tier III sex offender, sentenced to life imprisonment or to a period of 99 years or more, and whose sentence was not
commuted.
(4) Found to have committed an offense under Federal or State law that requires registration as a tier
III sex offender but was not convicted due to unavailability (death or flight to avoid prosecution).
b. Military funeral honors will not be provided to individuals who have at any time been discharged or
released from military service with any of the following (in accordance with DoDI 1300.15):
(1) A Dishonorable Discharge.
(2) A Bad Conduct Discharge.
(3) A Dismissal from the Service awarded by court-martial.
(4) An Other Than Honorable Conditions Discharge.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

32

(5) An officer resignation or retirement for the good of the Service in lieu of court-martial, which results
in a discharge characterization of Under other than Honorable Conditions.
(6) A clemency discharge.
c. Funeral honors are prohibited for a person who is a veteran or who died while on active duty or as a
member of the Reserve Components, when the circumstances surrounding the person’s death, or other
circumstances as specified by the SECARMY are such that to provide honors at a funeral or burial of the
person would bring discredit upon the Army (see DoDI 1300.15).
d. Ordinarily, no funeral honors will be provided to a member absent without authority in excess of 30
days or for an individual declared a deserter at the time of death by competent authority.
e. Military funeral support of any kind may be withheld from an individual otherwise entitled to receive
such support who has been convicted of a serious offense. A serious offense, as used herein, is a military
or civilian offense, which if prosecuted under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, could be punished by
confinement of 6 months or more and/or a punitive discharge; and any other misconduct, which if prosecuted under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, would require specific intent for conviction.
7–20. Burial honors (minimum requirement)
The following will be observed as the minimum support requirements when requested by the next of kin
and when sufficient notification is received to properly plan, prepare, and transport the funeral detail to the
interment site. Additional support or assistance may be provided to supplement the minimum funeral support requirements at the discretion of the Chief, CAC or commander designated by the CNGB or CAR.
a. Soldiers in active duty status and Medal of Honor recipients will receive at least a nine-member team
for the conduct of military funeral honors. The team will consist of an officer in charge or NCO in charge,
bugler, a six Soldier casket bearer and/or firing party (dual function), and a chaplain (if requested by family).
b. An Army retiree of any Component will receive the military funeral honors team listed in paragraph
7–20a when resources permit. When full military funeral honors cannot be rendered, the minimum requirements described in paragraph 7–20c will be provided.
c. Veterans will be provided at least two uniformed Servicemembers to perform the minimum mandatory funeral honors consisting of the ceremonial folding and presentation of the American flag and the
playing of Taps. At least one of the uniformed Servicemembers will be of the parent Service of the deceased veteran. They will participate at this ceremony and will present the flag to the family or other appropriate individual. A bugler is preferred, either military or civilian. The bugler will be placed in a prominent position. Bugler support may be contracted or voluntary. The Chief, CAC or commander designated
by the CNGB or CAR who is responsible for providing military funeral honors will ensure there is an active
search for a bugler. If none is available, the Chief, CAC or commander designated by the CNGB or CAR
may authorize the playing of a recording of “Taps” and will ensure that a quality recording is available. If
used, the device playing the recording of “Taps” will be out of sight of the funeral party. The official version of “Taps” is played by a single bugle. Echo “Taps” are not authorized (see DoDI 1300.15).
7–21. Memorial and funeral flyovers
a. Army aviation support of memorial/funeral flyovers is authorized when requested by the next of kin
and when deceased meets the eligibility criteria listed in paragraph 7–21e.
b. The next of kin may only request one flyover at either the funeral or a memorial service. However,
even if authorized, flyovers may still be limited based on aircrew/aircraft availability, weather constraints,
funeral location and/or operational commitments.
c. A flyover will consist of an appropriate formation of one to four aircraft. A missing-man formation will
be flown at a memorial service when the remains have not been recovered. The missing-man formation is
a four aircraft formation with the number three aircraft either missing or performing a pull-up maneuver at
a specific time in the flight.
d. Approval authority for a memorial or funeral flyover is prescribed in AR 95 – 1.
e. The following military personnel are authorized memorial or funeral flyover honors:
(1) The President, a former President, or President-elect of the United States.
(2) The Vice President of the United States or former Vice President of the United States.
(3) Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or former Secretary of Defense.
(4) SECARMY or former SECARMY.
(5) Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

33

(6) Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or former Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(7) Chief of Staff, or former Chief of Staff, United States Army.
(8) General of the Army, active, or retired four-star generals.
(9) Active duty and retired Army three-star GOs.
(10) Active duty and retired Sergeants Major of the Army, regardless of aviation service.
(11) Active duty (including Reserve Component) Army rated and non-rated aviation crewmembers, including those taking courses of instruction leading to such an aviation qualification. These personnel are
eligible when the death occurs on or off duty.
(12) Active duty (including Reserve Component) non-crewmembers but only when death occurs in the
line of duty while performing aviation duties in an Army aircraft.
(13) Active duty or retired Army members who have been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor
or the Distinguished Service Cross.
(14) Active duty or retired Army rated and non-rated aviation crewmembers who have significantly contributed to the advancement of Army aviation as determined by the approval authority in paragraph 7–
21d.
f. Repatriated remains of individuals meeting the requirements of the above are entitled to flyover honors.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

34

Appendix A
References
Section I
Required Publications
Unless otherwise stated, Department of the Army publications are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website at https://armypubs.army.mil/. United States Code is available at https://uscode.house.gov/.)
DoDI 1300.15
Military Funeral Support (Available at https://www.esd.whs.mil/.) (Cited in title page.)
PL 116–92
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Available at https://www.govinfo.gov/.) (Cited in
title page.)
19 FR 1235
Display of the Flag of the United States of America at Half-Staff Upon the Death of Certain Officials and
Former Officials (Available at https://www.federalregister.gov/.) (Cited in title page.)
34 FR 19699
Amending Proclamation No. 3044 with Respect to Display of Flag of the United States of America at HalfStaff Upon the Death of Certain Officials and Former Officials (Available at https://www.federalregister.gov/.) (Cited in title page.)
4 USC 4
Pledge of allegiance to the flag; manner of delivery (Cited in title page.)
10 USC 985
Persons convicted of capital crimes; certain other persons: denial of specified burial-related benefits
(Cited in title page.)
10 USC 1491
Funeral honors functions at funerals for veterans (Cited in title page.)
Section II
Prescribed Forms
This section contains no entries.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

35

Appendix B
Courtesies Rendered by Individuals during Various Ceremonies and Public Events (On
and Off Post)
B–1. General
a. To render honors indoors, stand at attention, unless reporting to a superior. If outdoors, execute the
hand salute when in uniform, or place the right hand over the heart when in civilian clothes (see table
B– 1).
b. Veterans not in uniform are authorized to render the hand salute during the playing of the National
Anthem, raising and lowering of the flag, or passing of the flag.
B–2. During ceremonies
When ceremonies (excluding military funerals) are being conducted, moving vehicles will be brought to a
halt. Military passengers and drivers will dismount and render the appropriate courtesy. When riding in
buses and trucks, only the senior occupant will dismount and render appropriate courtesy.
B–3. When in headgear
Military personnel will follow guidelines for wearing headgear in accordance with AR 670 –1.
Table B–1
Courtesies rendered by individuals during various ceremonies and public events (on and off post) —Continued

Reveille

Retreat when
played as
prelude to “To
The Color”

“To The
Color” or
national anthem

When uncased Colors
pass by or when
passing uncased Colors

Cannon salute rendered to
person
(Note 1)

Military funeral

1. Military
personnel in
uniform and
in formation
(with or
without
headgear).

Execute "Present
Arms" at the command of officer or
NCO in charge. Execute "Order Arms"
at the command of
officer or NCO in
charge.

Execute "Parade Rest" at
the command
of the officer or
NCO in charge.
Remain at Parade Rest until
given "Attention" by officer
or NCO in
charge.

Same as for
reveille.

COLORS ARE
PASSING: Execute
"Present Arms" at the
command of officer or
NCO in charge. Command is given when
Colors approach 6
paces of the flank of the
unit and held until the
Colors are 6 paces past
the flank of the unit. At
that time, the command
"Order Arms" will be
given. PASSING THE
COLORS: Execute orders at the command of
officer or NCO in
charge.

Execute
"Present
Arms" at the
command
of officer or
NCO in
charge.
Hold salute
until command "Order Arms" is
given by officer or
NCO in
charge.

Execute "Present Arms" at
the command
of officer or
NCO in
charge whenever casket is
moved.

2. Military
personnel in
uniform not
in formation
(with or
without
headgear).

At the first note of
music, face flag and
render hand salute
(if flag is not in
view, face direction
of music). End

At the first note
of music, face
flag and stand
at attention (if
flag is not in
view, face direction of

At the first
note of music: If outdoors, render
hand salute;
if indoors,
stand at

COLORS ARE
PASSING: When Colors are within 6 paces:
If outdoors, render hand
salute; if indoors, stand
at attention. Hold this
position until the Colors

At the first
note of music or first
round of salute, face
the ceremonial party

Each time
casket is
moved: Outdoors: Render hand salute. Indoors:
Stand at attention.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

36

Table B–1
Courtesies rendered by individuals during various ceremonies and public events (on and off post) —Continued

Reveille

Retreat when
played as
prelude to “To
The Color”

“To The
Color” or
national anthem

When uncased Colors
pass by or when
passing uncased Colors

Cannon salute rendered to
person
(Note 1)

salute on last note
of music.

music). Remain at attention until last
note of "TO
THE COLOR."
has been
played.

attention.
Hold this position until
the last note
of music has
been played.
(Note 2)

have passed 6 paces.
PASSING THE
COLORS: Outdoors:
When within 6 paces of
direction of the Colors,
turn head in direction of
Colors and render hand
salute. Hold salute until
6 paces past the Colors.

and render
hand salute.
End salute
on last note
of music or
when last
round of salute has
been fired.

3. All personnel
wearing civilian
clothes (military and civilian) (includes
sports attire
with headgear).

At the first note of
music, face flag,
stand at attention,
remove headgear
with right hand and
hold over left shoulder with right hand
over heart (if flag is
not in view, face direction of music).

At the first note
of music, face
flag, remove
headgear with
right hand and
stand at attention. Remain at
attention until
last note of "TO
THE COLOR“
has been
played (if flag
is not in view,
face direction
of music).

At the first
note of music: If outdoors or indoors hold
headgear
over the left
shoulder with
the right
hand over
the heart.
Hold this position until
the last note
of music has
been played.
(Note 2)

COLORS ARE
PASSING: When Colors are within 6 paces:
If outdoors, stand at attention, remove headgear with right hand
and hold over left shoulder with right hand over
heart; if indoors, stand
at attention. Hold this
position until the Colors
have passed 6 paces.
PASSING THE
COLORS: Outdoors:
When within 6 paces of
the Colors, turn head in
direction of Colors, remove headgear with
right hand and hold
over left shoulder with
right hand over heart.
Hold position until six
paces past the Colors.

At the first
note of music or first
round of salute, face
the ceremonial party,
remove
headgear
and stand
at attention.
Hold this
position until the last
note of music or last
round of salute has
been fired.

Each time casket
is moved: Outdoors: Stand at attention, remove
headgear with
right hand and
hold over the left
shoulder with right
hand over heart.
Indoors: Stand.

4. Military
personnel
and civilians
in civilian
dress without headgear. Personnel engaged in
sports and
attired in a
sports uniform without
headdress.

At the first note of
music, face flag,
stand at attention
with the right hand
over the heart. Hold
this position until
the last note of music has been played
(if flag is not in
view, face direction
of music).

At the first note
of music, face
flag and stand
at attention.
Remain at attention until
last note of "TO
THE COLOR"
has been
played (if flag
is not in view,
face direction
of music).

At the first
note of music: If outdoors or indoors stand
at attention
with the right
hand over
the heart.
Hold this position until
the last note
of music has
been played.
(Note 2)

COLORS ARE
PASSING: When Colors are within 6 paces:
If outdoors, stand at attention with right hand
over heart; if indoors,
stand at attention. Hold
this position until the
Colors have passed 6
paces. PASSING THE
COLORS: No action is
required.

At the first
note of music or first
round of salute, face
the ceremonial party
and stand
at attention.
Hold this
position until the last
note of music or last
round of salute has
been fired.

Each time casket
is moved: Outdoors: Stand at attention with right
hand with right
hand over heart.
Indoors: Stand at
attention.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

Military funeral

37

Table B–1
Courtesies rendered by individuals during various ceremonies and public events (on and off post) —Continued

Reveille

Retreat when
played as
prelude to “To
The Color”

“To The
Color” or
national anthem

When uncased Colors
pass by or when
passing uncased Colors

Cannon salute rendered to
person
(Note 1)

Military funeral

Notes:
1

When cannon salute is rendered to the Union or Nation, no individual action is required.

2

Military photographers covering ceremonies will render appropriate courtesy during the playing of the national anthem.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

38

Appendix C
National Flag at Half-Staff
C–1. Presidential Proclamation
In accordance with Presidential Proclamation 3044 of 1 March 1954 (19 FR 1235, 34 FR 19699), the following instructions apply to flying the national flag at half-staff:
a. Upon receipt of notification. The flag will be lowered to half-staff upon receipt of notification of death
of one of the designated officials from any reliable source, including news media.
b. On Memorial Day. See paragraph 2 –4 of this regulation for information on flying the flag on Memorial
Day.
C–2. Detailed information on national flag at half-staff procedures
See table C – 1 for further details.
Table C–1
National Flag at Half-Staff—Continued
Death of

Location of Flag

Period

President, former President, or Presidentelect

All installations, activities, and vessels of
DA in the District of Columbia and
throughout the United States and its territories and possessions. U.S. embassies
abroad, including all military facilities and
naval vessels and stations.

30 days from day of death during
prescribed hours (reveille to retreat)

Vice President, the Chief Justice or a retired
Chief Justice of the United States, or the
Speaker of the House of Representatives

All installations, activities, and vessels of
the DA in the District of Columbia and
throughout the United States and its territories and possessions.

10 days from day of death during
prescribed hours (reveille to retreat)

Associate Justice of Supreme Court, a member of the Cabinet, a former Vice President,
President pro tempore of the Senate, Majority or Minority Leader of the Senate, Majority
or Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Deputy Secretary of Defense,
Former Secretary of Defense, a Service Secretary, Chairman or former Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief of Staff or former
Chief of Staff, U.S. Army, General of the
Army

All installations, activities, and vessels of
DA in the District of Columbia and
throughout the United States and its territories and possessions.

During prescribed hours (reveille to
retreat) from day of death until retreat on day of interment.
Exception: Flags flown at place of
burial will be hoisted to the top after
the last salvo or volley is fired over
the grave.

General (Army 4 star) active or retired

All installations, activities, and vessels of
DA in the District of Columbia and
throughout the United States and its territories and possessions.

During prescribed hours (reveille to
retreat) on day of interment. Exception: military installation where funeral takes place. During prescribed hours (reveille to retreat)
from day of death until flag is
hoisted after the last salvo or volley
has been fired over the grave.

United States Senator, Representative, Territorial Delegate, or the Resident Commissioner from the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico

All installations and activities of DA in the
metropolitan area of the District of Columbia. All installations and activities of DA in
the State, Congressional District, Territory,
or Commonwealth of such Senator, Representative, Delegate, or Commissioner,
respectively.

During prescribed hours (reveille to
retreat) from day of death until retreat on day of interment. Exception: Flags flown at place of burial
will be hoisted to the top after the
last salvo or volley is fired over the
grave.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

39

Table C–1
National Flag at Half-Staff—Continued
Death of

Location of Flag

Period

Governor of a State, territory, or possession

All installations and activities of DA located in the State, territory, or possession
of the deceased governor.

During prescribed hours (reveille to retreat) from day of death until retreat on
day of interment.
Exception: Flags flown at place of burial
will be hoisted to the top after the last
salvo or volley is fired over the grave.

Other officials, former officials, or foreign dignitaries

To be displayed in accordance with orders
or instructions as may be issued by or at
the direction of the President, or in accordance with recognized customs or practices
not inconsistent with law.

As directed by or at the direction of the
President.

Sergeant Major of the Army or former Sergeant Major of the Army

To be displayed in accordance with orders
or instructions as may be issued by or at
the direction of the President, or in accordance with recognized customs or practices
not inconsistent with law.

During prescribed hours (reveille to retreat) on day of interment. Exception:
military installation where funeral takes
place. During prescribed hours (reveille
to retreat) from day of death until flag is
hoisted after the last volley has been
fired over the grave.

Army officer on the active or retired list and
not covered above and active enlisted personnel

Military installation where funeral or death
takes place.

If interment takes place on the installation: During prescribed hours on day of
interment (reveille to retreat) until flag is
hoisted to the top after the last salvo or
volley has been fired over the grave.
If interment takes place off the installation: During prescribed hours (reveille to
retreat) from day of death until remains
are removed from the installation.

Warrant officer, Cadets of the United States
Military Academy or enlisted personnel inactive or retired

Military installation where funeral or death
takes place.

During the funeral: Flag will be hoisted to
the top after final volley is fired over the
grave. If the remains are not interred on
the installation, flag will be hoisted to the
top after the remains have been removed from the installation.

Notes:
1

Location of flag. At Joint installations or commands, the procedures prescribed by the responsible military commander, or the executive agent are
executed by all the U.S. military units present.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

40

Appendix D
Internal Control Evaluation
D–1. Function
The function covered by this evaluation is the management of visitors, ceremonies, and special events for
distinguished visitors.
D–2. Purpose
The purpose of this evaluation is to assist protocol offices in evaluating the key internal controls listed. It
is intended as a guide and does not cover all controls.
D–3. Instructions
Answers must be based on the actual testing of key internal controls by utilizing one of four test methods
which are Inquiry, Observations, Examination, or Re-performance. Inquiry regarding a control’s effectiveness does not, by itself, provide sufficient evidence of whether a control is operating effectively and generally is corroborated through other types of control tests (observation or inspection). Answers that indicate deficiencies must be explained and corrective action identified in supporting documentation. These
internal controls must be evaluated at least once every 5 years. Certification that the evaluation has been
conducted must be accomplished on a DA Form 11 – 2 (Internal Control Evaluation Certification).
D–4. Key control questions
a. Are distinguished visitors extended appropriate honors and courtesies at all times with respect to position, title, and rank?
b. Are special events and ceremonies held in accordance with Army regulations and are consistent
throughout the command?
c. Are protocol offices maintaining an accurate record of all ceremonies, visits, conferences, and special events for 2 years?
D–5. Supersession
This evaluation replaces the evaluation previously published in AR 600 –25, dated 21 May 2025.
D–6. Comments
Help to make this a better tool for evaluating internal controls. Submit comments to the Director, Army
Protocol (DACS –ZDV –PRO) at armyprotocol@mail.mil.

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

41

Glossary of Terms
Authorized providers
Individuals or groups recognized by the Military Services, who are not Servicemembers or employees of
the United States Government and who augment the uniformed members of a military funeral honors detail. Authorized providers may include, but are not limited to, veterans’ service organizations, members as
trained volunteers of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, VA honor guards, and other appropriate individuals and organizations that support the rendering of military funeral honors (DoDI 1300.15).
Color
A specific flag symbolic of the spirit and tradition of the United States or the position, individual, or organization represented. The flag of the United States, when displayed as indicated in AR 840 –10, is known as
the “National Color.” The term “color” when used alone refer to the national color. The terms “colors”
means the national and positional or organizational colors (AR 840 – 10).
Eligible beneficiaries for military funeral honors
Deceased active duty personnel and veterans, as defined in 10 USC 1491(DoDI 1300.15).
Military funeral honors
The ceremonial paying of respect and the final demonstration of the country’s gratitude to those who, in
times of war and peace, have faithfully defended the United States. The military funeral honors ceremony
consists of, at a minimum, the folding and presentation of the U.S. flag and the sounding of “Taps” by a
detail of two uniformed members of the Military Services. At least one of the detail’s members will be from
the parent Service of the eligible beneficiary (DoDI 1300.15).
Service representative
Uniformed member of the parent Service of the eligible beneficiary who leads the honors detail and presents the U.S. flag to the next of kin (DoDI 1300.15).
Taps
The bugle call designated as the National Song of Military Remembrance. The official version of Taps is
played by a single bugle (DoDI 1300.15).
Vessel
Includes every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a
means of transportation on navigable waters of the United States or waters of the contiguous zone but
does not include amphibious vehicles (40 CFR 1700.3).
Veteran
A person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, as defined in 38 USC 101, and was discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable by means of an honorable, or under honorable conditions (general) discharge; or was a member or former member of the Selected Reserve, as described in 38 USC 2301(f) (DoDI 1300.15).

AR 600–25 • 1 May 2026

42

UNCLASSIFIED

PIN 004318–000

