ATP 3-34.40
MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

GENERAL ENGINEERING

APRIL 2023

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
This publication supersedes ATP 3-34.40 (FM 3-34.400)/MCWP 3-17.7, dated 25 February 2015.

Headquarters, Department of the Army

Preface
This manual provides general engineering doctrine for the Army and Marine Corps. This manual is linked to joint,
Army, and Marine Corps doctrine to ensure its usefulness for joint, Army, and Marine Corps commanders and
staffs. To comprehend the doctrine contained in this manual, readers must first understand the Service mission,
organization, and roles described in the capstone doctrine. They must understand the operations process,
operational art, and warfighting functions described in Army Doctrine Publication (ADP) 3-0, joint engineer
functions discussed in JP 3-34 and Navy warfare publication (NWP) 4-04, and Army engineer disciplines
discussed in FM 3-34. Similarly, readers can find information pertaining to Marine Corps engineer activities
conducted in support of distributed maritime operations in MCWP 3-34.
In addition, readers must also fully understand the discussion of engineer operations at echelons above brigade
(EAB) in FM 3-34, the fundamentals of assured mobility found in ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A and ATP
3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B, the discussion of Seabee operations in the Marine air-ground task force (MAGTF) found in
NTTP 3-10.1M/MCTP 3-34D, the discussion of base camps found in ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP
3-17.7N), and the protection tasks discussed in ADP 3-37.
The principal audience for this manual is all members of the military profession of arms. Commanders and staffs
of Army and Marine headquarters serving as joint task force (JTF) or multinational headquarters should also refer
to applicable joint or multinational doctrine concerning military activities conducted across the competition
continuum. This manual will be used in training and by educators throughout the Army and Marine Corps. The
other intended audiences for this publication are the leaders and staff sections within engineer units that are
required to provide general engineering support.
Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure that their decisions and actions comply with applicable United
States, international, and in some cases host-nation laws and regulations. Commanders at all levels ensure that
their Soldiers and Marines operate in accordance with the law of war and the rules of engagement. (See FM
6-27/MCTP 11-10C.)
ATP 3-34.40 uses joint terms where applicable. When this manual uses two terms separated by a slash (/), the
first term is the Army term and the second term is the Marine Corps term. For example, Army sustainment and
Marine Corps combat service support are written in this manual as sustainment/combat service support. Selected
joint, Army, and Marine Corps terms and definitions appear in the glossary and the text. For definitions shown in
the text, the term is italicized and the number of the proponent publication follows the definition. This publication
is not the proponent for any Army terms.
ATP 3-34.40 applies to the Active Army, Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the United States and
United States Army Reserve, total force Marine Corps unless otherwise stated.
The Army proponent of this publication is the Army Engineer School. The preparing agency is the Fielded Force
Integration Directorate, Doctrine Division. Send comments and recommendations on DA Form 2028
(Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) to Commander, Army Maneuver Support Center of
Excellence (MSCoE), ATTN: ATZT-FFD, 14000 MSCoE Loop, Suite 270, Fort Leonard Wood, MO 654738929; e-mail the DA Form 2028 to usarmy.leonardwood.mscoe.mbx.cdidcodddengdoc@army.mil; or submit an
electronic DA Form 2028.
The Commanding Officer of the Marine Corps Engineer School is appointed as the author of Marine Corps
content in this publication. Marine Corps personnel can submit suggestions and changes by e-mail to
MCES_S3_Doctrine_SMB@usmc.mil or by mail to the Commanding Officer (ATTN: S-3), Marine Corps
Engineer School, PSC Box 20069, Camp Lejeune, NC 28542-0069.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

v

This page intentionally left blank.

Introduction
ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D provides doctrine for the conduct of general engineering support by the Army and
Marine Corps. It emphasizes the general engineering unity of effort by providing a common philosophy, language,
and purpose. General engineering is a joint and Marine Corps engineering function and an Army discipline. This
publication discusses how general engineering enables commanders to achieve their objectives in supporting
multinational, joint, and service-specific missions. This publication also introduces subordinate doctrine.
This manual builds on the collective knowledge, wisdom, and military expertise gained through recent operations,
numerous lessons learned, and doctrine revisions. This doctrine has also been adjusted to reduce the duplication
of technical detail already contained in the referenced subordinate manuals.
This publication describes how engineer commanders, staffs, and subordinate leaders conduct general engineering
to support Army and Marine Corps forces within the framework of joint and multinational operations. Additional
considerations for engineers in coalition operations are reviewed in Allied Joint Publication 3.12 and Allied
Tactical Publication 3.12.1.
The general engineering doctrine provided in this manual presents an overview of a wide range of topics and
allows the reader to understand how the topics fit together. The engineer must refer to the referenced materials
throughout the manual to gain a complete understanding of the general engineering life cycle activities. This
manual is not meant to be a substitute for the creative thought, innovation, and initiative among engineer leaders,
Soldiers, or Marines. Rather, its intent is to build, enhance, and strengthen their present knowledge and
understanding. General engineers take their training, experience, capabilities, and understanding of doctrine and
apply them to solve and unravel unique and obscure challenges to meet operational needs.
This manual uses the term planning process to indicate the military decision-making process (MDMP)/Marine
Corps planning process (MCPP) and troop leading procedures. This manual uses the term mission variables to
indicate the Army and Marine Corps uses of the term mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support
available-time available and civil considerations and mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support
available-time available.
This manual uses the term operational variables to indicate the Army and Marine Corps uses of the term. For the
Army, operational variables consist of political, military, economic, social, information, infrastructure, physical
environment, and time. For the Marine Corps (and in joint doctrine), operational variables consist of political,
military, economic, social, information, and infrastructure (PMESII).
A complete listing of preferred metric units for general use is contained in Federal Standard 376B at
https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2017/05/09/fs376-b.pdf.
Unless stated otherwise, masculine nouns and pronouns do not refer exclusively to men.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

vii

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 1

General Engineering Discipline and Function
Within Army doctrine, general engineering is considered a discipline; in Marine Corps
and Joint doctrine, it is a function (see JP 3-34). General engineering is those
engineering capabilities and activities, other than combat engineering, that provide
infrastructure and modify, maintain, or protect the physical environment (JP 3-34). It
complements and supports combat and geospatial engineering and encompasses the
engineer tasks required to conduct and sustain military operations across the
competition continuum. General engineering tasks are usually conducted in
coordination with unified action partners and are integrated into the commander’s plan.
General engineer units may be led by any of the Services, and general engineering
support may come from other Service engineers, contractors, HN capabilities, or the
engineers of other nations. General engineering occurs throughout the area of
operations and competition continuum. This chapter discusses general engineering
employment considerations and provides guidance on integrating and synchronizing
general engineering with joint theater and maneuver commanders’ strategic,
operational, and tactical plans. It also introduces the general engineering life cycle
activities and employment considerations for engineering that are used to frame
discussions in the other chapters in this manual.

LIFE CYCLE ACTIVITIES
1-1. General engineering life cycle activities are used to visualize the major activities required to produce
a desired effect and are conducted during the life cycle of both operations and specific projects. To effectively
and efficiently conduct any single general engineering life cycle activity, all life cycle activities must be
considered together with their interrelationships and their impact on other activities. These life cycle activities
should not be viewed separately or be conducted alone, because each activity impacts the other. For example,
a completed design should be based on planning guidance, the ability of the military unit to quickly construct
the design, and the impact of the design on operation and maintenance (O&M). Each life cycle activity is
considered in an economic evaluation of life-cycle costs.
1-2. General engineering life-cycle activities include—
 Planning and design.
 Construction.
 Operation.
 Maintenance.
 Transfer and closure.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
1-3. General engineering planning includes conceptual, detailed, and master planning. Significant general
engineering is conducted in the joint operations area (JOA), so an understanding of joint planning and other
Service planning and capabilities is required. See CJCSM 3130.03A, FM 3-34, JP 1 Vol 1, JP 3-34, and JP
5-0 for more information on joint planning.
1-4. Design should not be confused with the Army design methodology (or operational design) discussed
in ADP 3-0 and ADP 5-0. Design in this manual is an extension of planning that matches and links
engineering principles and construction means against mission requirements to create the necessary
engineering and construction details needed for building and dismantling facilities and infrastructure. The

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-1

Chapter 1

general life-cycle activities of planning and design are interdependent, although both apply critical and
creative thinking to understand, visualize, and describe unfamiliar problems and the approaches to solving
them.

CONSTRUCTION
1-5. Construction is the art or process of building or assembling structures such as base camps, bed-down
facilities, or infrastructure. It consists of a wide range of activities, methods, and techniques used to combine
individual parts and to assemble resources together to create a greater whole. Construction is performed by
military units, contractors authorized to accompany the force (CAAF), and non-CAAF. Facilities and
infrastructure are built using various methods that are evaluated and determined during planning and design.
See JP 4-10 for more information on CAAF and non-CAAF construction.

Army Baseline General Engineer Units
1-6. Baseline general engineer units that support construction efforts are engineer construction companies,
engineer support companies, and vertical construction companies. Their capabilities are discussed in
ATP 3-34.22 and FM 3-34.

Army Specialized Engineer Units
1-7. Specialized engineer units that support general engineers in construction efforts include engineer
facilities detachments, engineer utilities detachments, survey and design teams, firefighting teams,
construction management teams, forward engineer support teams (FEST), diving teams, asphalt teams,
concrete teams, well-drilling teams, geospatial engineering teams, quarry teams, and prime power teams.
1-8. Specialized engineer unit capabilities are applied in general support or general support reinforcing
roles to enhance general engineering efforts, as described by the following:
 Dive teams assist in seaport or bridging efforts.
 Asphalt teams assist in paving for airfields and roads.
 Quarry teams assist in quarry, borrow pit, and rock-crushing.
 Concrete sections assist in concrete production.
 Engineer facilities detachments and engineer utilities detachments assist in facility assessments,
inspections, services, maintenance, and repair.
 Construction management teams, geospatial engineering teams, equipment support platoons, and
survey and design teams assist in construction planning and maintain updates to the common
operational picture for construction updates. If required, the Geospatial Planning Cell can assist in
infrastructure efforts for humanitarian assistance, domestic response, and defense support of civil
authorities (DSCA).
 Engineer prime power teams plan and design power systems and install, operate, and maintain
deployable prime power systems.
 FEST–advance is a deployable team that provides infrastructure assessment; engineer planning
and design; and environmental, geospatial, and other technical engineer support (from theater
army to brigade echelon) and augments the staff at those echelons.
 FEST–main is a deployable capability that provides minor contract construction administration,
environmental, geospatial, and other engineer support (typically to the theater army).
Note. Specialized engineer unit organizations and capabilities are discussed in ATP 3-34.22 and
FM 3-34.

Marine Corps General Engineer Units
1-9. The Marine Corps primary general engineering unit is the Engineer Support Battalion. The Marine
wing support squadron performs limited general engineering to support aviation operations conducted by the

1-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function

aviation combat element. There are no specialized engineer units in the Marine Corps. See MCWP 3-34 for
details on Marine Corps engineer unit capabilities.

OPERATION
1-10. This manual discusses the operation of engineer-specific equipment and systems that produce
engineering effects. The operation of these systems usually requires specifically designed, equipped,
organized, and trained units or trained individuals. Some facility engineer organization examples include
facility engineer detachments and engineer utilities detachments. Some equipment or system examples are
power systems, waste treatment systems, and float bridges. The tasks of O&M are often grouped together
but are sometimes separated in this manual because the engineer may be required to maintain some things
that they are not required to operate, such as an airfield that is operated by an Army aviation unit.
1-11. Base camp operation is the O&M of the base camp physical plant and the provision of base camp
services and support measures that are needed to achieve the purpose of the base camp and to fulfill functional
requirements. The skills needed for operating and managing base camps do not reside in any single branch
or functional area. A grouping of capabilities is required to produce synergic effects within the base camp.
Success hinges on placing the right people with the right skill sets at the right time. Shortfalls in skills or
capabilities at base camps are filled through tenant units, augmentation reachback measures, or contracted
support methods. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for additional information on base
camps.

MAINTENANCE
1-12. Maintenance is the process of keeping facilities and infrastructure in good working condition so that
they can continue functionality and good service for the community they support. Engineers review
maintenance service records, conduct physical inspections, order parts, request services, and schedule repair
or service maintenance of individual facilities or of the overall infrastructure.
1-13. Facility maintenance responsibility has always been a teamwork process for the following reasons:
 The commander has the overall responsibility to ensure that maintenance gets the proper attention
it deserves and the adequate resources it requires. The commander leads the maintenance efforts.
 The using units or tenant units are responsible for properly maintaining their own facilities.
Because they use the facilities on a daily basis, they are responsible for performing routine upkeep
and for reporting facility maintenance issues beyond their repair capabilities.
 Engineers are responsible for assisting in facility maintenance areas that are beyond the training
and expertise of tenant units. This includes providing engineer expertise and resources to resolve
facility maintenance issues and bringing in external specialized engineering services. Engineers
can conduct facility assessments, inspections, services, maintenance, and repair.
1-14. This manual discusses the maintenance of completed general engineering projects and engineerspecific equipment and systems. Maintenance and repair tasks are also often grouped together but are
sometimes separated in this manual because engineers may be responsible for repairing some things that they
are not responsible for maintaining, such as a finished well that has been turned over to a sustainment/logistics
unit for O&M.
1-15. The life cycle activities of O&M are discussed within the chapters of this manual for each specific
area. This manual discusses specific O&M requirements for construction, seaports, airfields, heliports, roads,
railroads, bridges, base camps, real estate, power systems, and water production.

TRANSFER AND CLOSURE
1-16. All or part of the facilities may be transferred, destroyed, abandoned, or closed. See
ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for a discussion on the transfer and closure of base camps.
1-17. The combatant commander (CCDR) develops policies and procedures for transfer and closure as part
of the theater-based strategy. General engineering supports the overall plan to transfer or close facilities.
Engineers have specific procedures to transfer individual projects or facilities, such as bridges or drilled

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-3

Chapter 1

wells. Transfer and closure has documentation requirements to maintain and archive records and documents.
The planned end state for each facility is considered during each general engineering life-cycle activity.

EMPLOYMENT CONSIDERATIONS
1-18. General engineering consists of those engineering capabilities and activities, other than combat
engineering, that modify, maintain, or protect the physical environment (JP 3-34). General engineering
encompasses the engineer tasks that establish and maintain the infrastructure required to conduct and sustain
military operations. Examples include the construction, repair, maintenance, and operation of infrastructure,
facilities, lines of communications, and bases; terrain modification and repair; and selected explosive hazard
activities (see JP 3-34).
1-19. This manual serves as the primary reference for planning and executing general engineering as an
engineer function at the Marine Corps level and as an engineer discipline at the Army level. It is directly
linked to ADP 3-0, FM 3-34, JP 3-34, and MCWP 3-34.
1-20. General engineering is the most diverse of the three interrelated engineer functions and is usually the
largest percentage of all engineer support provided to an operation. General engineering missions are
typically performed in a joint, interagency, and multinational environment. Besides occurring throughout the
area of operations at all levels of warfare and aside from being executed during every type of military
operation, general engineering may employ many of the engineer military occupational specialties within the
Army and Marine Corps.
1-21. General Engineering units are organized and equipped to respond to requirements. Engineer units with
a general engineering mission must be trained and prepared to integrate engineer disciplines or functions to
support the maneuver commander. They must also be able to use and integrate geospatial products into their
operations and be capable of conducting limited combat engineering functions to facilitate the construction
mission. General engineers must be technically and tactically proficient to conduct tasks under all threat
conditions. They must also be well trained in small-unit tactics, including convoy security, work site security,
and limited offensive operations.
1-22. General engineering includes—
 Constructing or repairing existing logistics support facilities, supply and LOC routes (including
bridges and roads), airfields, ports, water wells, power systems, water and fuel pipelines, base
camps, and force bed-down facilities. Firefighting and engineer diving may be critical enablers to
these tasks.
 Conducting engineer tasks through a modified table of organization and equipment or through the
United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE).
 Conducting engineer tasks by using a combination of joint engineer units, civilian contractors, HN
forces, or allied engineer capabilities. As the area of operations matures, the general engineering
effort may transfer to civilian contractors, such as to those who operate under the logistics civil
augmentation program.
 Incorporating field force engineering to leverage its capabilities. This includes linkages that
facilitate engineer reachback.
 Requiring various engineer reconnaissance measures and assessments to be performed before, or
early on in, a particular mission. See ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4).
 Supporting disaster preparedness planning, response, and DSCA. See ADP 3-28 for more
information about DSCA.
 Acquiring and disposing of real estate and real property.
 Supporting the engineer protection planning and construction tasks that are not considered
survivability tasks under combat engineering.
 Conducting camouflage, concealment, and deception tasks. See ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C.
 Performing environmental support engineering missions.
 Conducting base or area denial missions.
 Obtaining large quantities of construction materials, which must be planned and provided for in a
timely manner.

1-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function






Producing construction materials.
Integrating environmental considerations. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B) for
environmental considerations related to general engineering.
Clearing areas of unexploded explosive ordnance and landmines before executing general
engineering tasks if area clearance capabilities are not available.
Reducing obstacles in an unopposed or nonhostile environment.

GENERAL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
1-23. General engineering supports combat engineering (including mobility and countermobility); enhances
protection (including survivability); enables force projection and sustainment/logistics; builds partner
capacities; and develops, maintains, and restores infrastructure. General engineering also supports theater
level sustainment/logistics.

COMBAT ENGINEER SUPPORT
1-24. Countermobility is a set of combined arms activities that use or enhance the effects of natural and manmade obstacles to prevent the enemy freedom of movement and maneuver (ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B). See
ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B for more information about countermobility. General engineering may enhance
combat engineering effort, but general engineering normally supports countermobility with earthwork and
timber construction in the support or sustainment area for operational area security and survivability. See
ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B, FM 3-34, and JP 3-34 for additional information on countermobility.
1-25. General engineering support to combat engineering efforts is not limited to countermobility. If combat
engineering assets are completely committed or if requirements exceed combat engineering capabilities and
the situation requires augmentation or greater engineer support, general engineers may be tasked to assist
with mobility for units or be assigned other general support tasks. However, the primary focus of general
engineering is to develop infrastructure to support mobility, force projection, sustainment/logistics, base
camps, force bed-down facilities, stability operations, and DSCA.

FORCE PROTECTION
1-26. General engineering enhances protected sites through the planning, design, construction, maintenance,
and hardening of facilities for—
 Area security.
 Antiterrorism measures.
 Survivability.
 Detainees and dislocated civilian areas.

FORCE PROJECTION
1-27. General engineering enables shaping by the planning, design, and construction to deploy forces. This
includes peacetime and contingency locations, intermediate staging bases, support accesses, and force beddown facilities.

SUSTAINMENT/LOGISTICS
1-28. General engineering enables sustainment/logistics by the planning, design, construction, maintenance,
and repair of LOCs, base camps, and bed-down facilities. LOCs support logistics but are not incorporated
into this consideration area of sustainment/logistics.

PARTNER CAPACITY
1-29. General engineering builds partner capacity by training and developing local leaders and engineer
assets and by involving the local community. General engineers develop partner infrastructure and perform
tasks alongside partner engineers to develop technical and tactical engineer capacities.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-5

Chapter 1

1-30. Engineer partnerships can be local, national, joint, interagency, or multinational based on the mutual
cooperation to achieve common engineering goals and purposes. Partnerships can be beneficial in sharing
construction efforts, ideas, or techniques, which leads to overall improvements. An example of building
capacity is USACE assistance with a water resource study and engineer unit completion of water
infrastructure projects with HN involvement.
1-31. General engineers may be involved in building partner capacity in the development of infrastructure.
Engineers combine the capabilities of all three disciplines (combat, general, and geospatial engineering) to
build partner capacity and develop infrastructure, which is vital to stability and counterinsurgency tasks that
yield the greatest return. Partner capacity building is not exclusively limited to only performing general
engineering tasks; it can also include other tasks to achieve the overall purpose and desired effect. (For
example, performing general engineering tasks that enable force projection and sustainment/logistics that
change the manner in which the task is executed.)
1-32. The overall purpose of building partner capacity is to support the commander in improving the
conditions of HN leaders, institutions, and infrastructure development capabilities and influencing them to
achieve military objectives for self–defense and national self-sufficiency (political, military, economic,
social, information, infrastructure, physical environment, and time). See FM 3-34 for more information on
building partner capacity.
1-33. In support of building partner capacity, general engineering tasks may include—
 Building, repairing, and maintaining various infrastructure facilities.
 Providing essential services.
 Building roads to improve economic conditions using local labor resources.
 Assisting the local population in improving the quality of wastewater and drinking water systems.
 Training, educating, and developing local leaders and engineers in public works projects,
including exchange programs and conferences to build stronger relations and bonds.
 Developing local engineer projects that involve the community to a greater degree, such as parks
and recreational centers that improve the quality of life.
 Using geospatial engineers and USACE resources to assist in locating and mapping local water
sources.
 Improving local water distribution systems, such as adding pumping stations or constructing new
water wells.

INFRASTRUCTURE
1-34. General engineering develops infrastructure to support mobility, force projection,
sustainment/logistics, base camps, force bed-down facilities, stability operations, and DSCA. Infrastructure
support includes the construction, rehabilitation, repair, maintenance, and modification of landing strips,
airfields, check points, main supply routes (MSRs), LOCs, supply installations, building structures, bridges,
and other related aspects.
1-35. General engineer units (in support of infrastructure development) may also perform repair and limited
reconstruction of railroads or water and waste facilities. The basic capabilities of general engineer units can
be expanded by augmenting them with additional personnel, equipment, and training from specialized
engineer units or other sources. Such augmentation can expand general engineer capabilities to conduct
bituminous mixing and paving, quarrying and crushing, pipeline support construction, and dive support to
complete major construction projects (highways, storage facilities, seaports, airfields).
1-36. Specialized engineer units also support infrastructure maintenance, improvement, and repair efforts.
General engineering infrastructure capabilities can be expanded with assistance from—
 Laboratories and research centers, such as the USACE Reachback Operations Center (UROC).
 Centers of expertise (USACE, Naval Facilities Engineering Systems Command [NAVFAC],
United States Army Engineer School).
 FFE.
 Technical Search and Rescue.

1-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function

UNIVERSAL JOINT TASK LIST
1-37. CJCSM 3500.04F contains a hierarchical listing of tasks that are performed by a joint military force.
The manual provides a common language and reference system for joint commanders, staffs, planners,
combat developers, and trainers. As applied to joint training, the Universal Joint Task List is a key element
of the requirements-based mission for task analysis. It contains strategic national and theater operational and
tactical tasks. Each task contains measures of performance and criteria that support its definition.
1-38. At the tactical level, the Universal Joint Task List links the operational tasks to tactical tasks by
requiring the Services to produce Service-specific tactical task lists. For example,—
 For the Army, this is codified in unit mission essential tasks. Although an analysis of the Universal
Joint Task List is important, the most relevant links for general engineering tasks (since they are
typically considered tactical tasks in this hierarchy) are listed on the Army Training Network
website https://atn.army.mil, which outlines general engineering tasks that units may use as a
source to establish their mission-essential task list and the Army tactical tasks that are subordinate
to providing general engineering support. While there may be examples of general engineering
tasks not listed under Army tactical tasks, the vast majority are included as subtasks.
 For the United States Marine Corps, this is codified in the Marine Corps task list–2.0. The Marine
Corps task list–2.0 outlines Marine Corps general engineering and combat engineering tasks. The
Marine engineers develop the mission-essential task list from these and other documents in support
of the commander’s assigned mission.

PRIMARY AND SUBORDINATE TASKS
1-39. General engineering primary tasks provide a construct to categorize the tasks performed during general
engineering life-cycle activities. The following paragraphs include the typical subordinate tasks for each
primary task.
1-40. Life cycle activities subtasks include—
 Planning.
 Design.
 Construction.
 Maintenance.
1-41. Planning and design task subtasks include—
 Determining requirements.
 Determining standards.
 Developing options.
 Conducting engineering reconnaissance.
 Performing site reconnaissance and site selection.
 Producing site layout.
 Performing economic analysis.
 Recommending priorities, including engineer effort, construction material allocation, and
contractor support.
 Performing master planning.
 Performing program and project management.
1-42. Construction support subtasks include—
 Performing construction planning and estimating.
 Performing project management.
 Procuring construction materials.
 Producing construction materials.
 Performing construction techniques.
 Performing contract construction management.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-7

Chapter 1

1-43. LOC task subtasks include—
 Constructing and maintaining seaports of debarkation.
 Constructing and maintaining airfields and heliports.
 Constructing and maintaining roads and railroads.
 Constructing and maintaining bridges.
1-44. Base camp and force bed-down facilities task subtasks include—
 Performing bed-down development planning.
 Performing base camp development planning.
 Performing planning and facilities design.
 Modifying existing facilities.
 Conducting site selection and layout.
 Constructing base camps.
 Providing force bed-down facilities.
 Performing facilities O&M.
1-45. Real estate and real property maintenance activities task subtasks include—
 Acquiring real estate.
 Managing real estate.
 Managing utilities.
 Transferring real estate and real property.
1-46. Power system support task subtasks include—
 Assessing power system requirements.
 Planning and designing power systems.
 Constructing, installing, and connecting power systems.
 Operating and maintaining power systems.
 Expanding or deconstructing power systems.
 Providing base closure support.
1-47. Water production and distribution task subtasks include—
 Performing water planning and design.
 Supporting field water supply.
 Performing water detection.
 Conducting well-drilling.
 Supporting water production and distribution.
 Installing and maintaining potable water and sanitary sewage piping systems.
 (USMC) Conducting reconnaissance to identify sources of water and to calculate the quality and
quantity of water at each location surveyed.

GENERAL ENGINEERING IN CONTIGUOUS AND NONCONTIGUOUS AREAS
1-48. Commanders visualize the concept of operations and describe their intent in the area of operations in
spatial terms of deep, close, support, and rear areas. These terms are more useful to general engineers when
such operations are contiguous and against a clearly defined symmetric enemy force. The operational
environment may seldom allow the commander the luxury of describing the area of operations in such terms.
Figure 1-1 graphically describes a possible means by which the commander may visualize a contiguous area
of operations.

1-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function

Legend:
ASR
MSR

alternate supply route
main supply route

Figure 1-1. Contiguous areas
1-49. The concept of contiguous and noncontiguous operations includes the following:
 A contiguous area of operations is where all of a commander’s subordinate forces’ areas of
operations share one or more common boundaries (see FM 3-90-1). Because they share some
boundaries, units can more easily pool resources together and plan a common defense.
 A noncontiguous area of operations is where one or more of the commander’s subordinate force’s
areas of operation do not share a common boundary (see FM 3-90-1). This makes it difficult to
acquire, distribute, and share resources and plan a common defense due to geographic distance or
separation.
 The Navy/Marine Corps concepts of Distributed Maritime Operations and Expeditionary Advanced
Base Operations are the naval equivalent of noncontiguous areas of operations operational area
framework.
1-50. The combination of contiguous and noncontiguous operations impacts the planning and execution of
general engineering tasks for the following reasons:
 In a contiguous area of operations, tasks are typically performed to the rear of division boundaries
by engineer units assigned to higher echelon headquarters.
 In a less contiguous area of operations, general engineering tasks are required in forward areas in
proximity to combat units. Because some general engineering equipment is not organic to the
brigade combat team (BCT), the BCT is normally augmented with the necessary engineer capacity
to perform tasks within the BCT area of operations. The types of general engineering capabilities
that augment the BCT depend on the types of missions to be accomplished and their availability.
Selected general engineering tasks may need to be performed by combat engineers. See
FM 3-90-1, JP 3-0, and JP 3-34 for additional information on contiguous and noncontiguous
operations.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-9

Chapter 1

1-51. The impact of the noncontiguous battlefield on general engineering tasks is numerous and includes
increased—
 Work site security. Because units perform general engineering near forward elements, contact
with the enemy is much more likely. Units performing general engineering tasks also maintain
individual and collective protection tasks to provide for their own defense against such threats.
Engineer units performing general engineering tasks require local security because they have
insufficient personnel and weapons systems to perform their assigned tasks and secure work sites.
 General and local work site security. During contiguous operations, units receive general
security from forward maneuver units. Local security is performed by internal assets. On the
noncontiguous battlefield, units face the same threat level as maneuver units operating in the area
of operations. In addition, there is the loss of ability to mass when attached or placed in direct
support.
 Numbers and lengths of LOCs and MSRs. Noncontiguous areas create a dilemma for the
construction and maintenance of LOCs and MSRs due to security and, typically, greater distances.
Engineer planners can expect smaller-size units to be spread over greater geographic distances
than during contiguous operations. Increased personnel security along those routes is needed, and
greater convoy security measures are required.
 Facility construction efforts. Units operate with more autonomy within their own area of
operations and require facilities for deployment, supply, maintenance, and other
sustainment/combat service support activities.
 Combat engineer units performing general engineer tasks. Maneuver commanders at BCT,
battalion landing team (BLT), and higher levels must be able to task organic or assigned combat
engineer elements to conduct selected general engineer tasks. However, Marine engineers are taskorganized and can have different command relationships than other services. BLTs do not have
organic engineer units but are normally designated engineer units in direct and general support
relationships. Some tasks can be performed without augmentation. A conscious trade-off of
potential combat engineering tasks being performed must precede a commander’s decision to have
these tasks executed. Selected additional general engineer tasks can be performed by combat
engineer units when they receive additional specialized equipment and expertise. However,
combat engineers cannot perform all general engineer tasks.
 General engineer task-organization at lower echelons. Because of the great distances involved
in a noncontiguous area of operations and the impact on the geographical span of control, engineer
commanders may not be able to effectively provide general engineering in a manner that is
responsive to a commander’s needs without decentralization of authority. General engineer
capabilities are most effective when in a direct support or attached command support relationship.

GENERAL ENGINEERING PRINCIPLES
1-52. In an effort to improve effectiveness, achieve greater efficiency, and retain best practices, engineers
employ principles to aid them in their profession. These are retained due to their continuing importance,
relevance, and value. A principle is a comprehensive and fundamental law or an assumption of central
importance that describes how an organization or function approaches the conduct of operations. Principles
are considerations that should guide the employment of an organization or function.
1-53. General engineering tasks are guided by the principles of—
 Sustainability.
 Scalability.
 Modularity.
 Standardization.

Sustainability
1-54. Sustainability is related to solutions that may be a facility, service, technique, or procedure.
Sustainability helps to achieve increased effectiveness through increased operational efficiencies, reduced
logistics requirements and, ultimately, reduced costs.

1-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function

1-55. General engineering tasks pursue a goal of delivering effective, resilient, sustainable, and efficient
solutions. There is a balance between efficiency and effectiveness. Sometimes operational requirements
allow the balance to shift to increased efficiency. At other times, operational requirements shift the balance
toward increased effectiveness, regardless of efficiency. When conditions permit, sustainable design and
construction practices are considered in all solutions.
1-56. Sustainability is integrated and supported by—
 Applying sustainable design, construction, and O&M practices.
 Developing cost-effective solutions by using available resources to produce desired results.
 Developing more efficient solutions that reduce the consumption of resources (energy, water,
labor, equipment, time, materials, money).
 Reducing demands on sustainment/combat service support systems.
 Reducing energy consumption by reducing demand, enhancing efficiencies, and using renewable
energy sources.
 Developing sustainable facilities and infrastructures. (Reduce, recycle, and reuse waste with
solutions that are simple and inexpensive to operate, maintain, and repair.)
 Developing initial life cycle planning cost estimates and economic analysis.
Notes.
1. See Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 1-200-02 for additional information on sustainable
building requirements development.
2. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for more information on sustainable base
camps.
3. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B) for more information on sustainable
environmental considerations.

Scalability
1-57. Scalable solutions enable general engineering projects to expand or contract to meet changing
requirements without the need to redesign. Scalable solutions remain efficient and practical when applied to
a larger or smaller requirement.
1-58. The use of modular and multifunctional designs and systems contributes to scalability. Some
comprehensive, scalable solutions are integrated and developed at the joint and Service level.

Modularity
1-59. Modular solutions complement scalability and may be scalable without being modular. Modularity is
the degree to which system components may be separated or recombined. For example, most military LOC
bridge systems are modular. The use of modular systems and prefabricated or pre-engineered components is
maximized to facilitate rapid development and achieve scalability when large projects or systems combine
smaller subprojects or smaller systems.
1-60. Modular construction techniques use standard materials and component sizes to build a single structure
or mass-produce components of the structure for quicker assembly. The use of modular construction
techniques does not ensure that the design is scalable.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-11

Chapter 1

Standardization
1-61. Standardizing plans, designs, and construction methods or techniques simplifies maintenance and
repair. Standardization—
 Reduces uncertainty in meeting mandatory requirements and provides for more accurate estimates
of materials, schedules, and costs.
 Helps to improve and sustain proficiency and readiness through the universal application of
approved practices and procedures.
 Reduces the adverse effects of personnel turbulence associated with reassignments and facilitates
interoperability between different organizations.
 Uses standardized, scalable, and adaptable designs and construction methods.
 Simplifies construction programming activities, improves early planning techniques, and provides
consistency in solution deliveries.
 Uses standard solutions for one set of requirements that can be modified or adapted to meet similar
requirements.
 Reduces costs and inventory requirements without having to maintain large inventories of diverse
parts or equipment.
 Increases sustainability.
 Seeks to standardize Service construction standards to provide commanders with consistent
expectations and the use of proven best practices and tactics, techniques, and procedures. (A
standard solution may not always be the best solution to meet unique requirements.)
1-62. An example of standardization is the development of the UFC. This is a Department of Defense
(DOD)-developed standardized facility planning, design, construction, and O&M criteria system for use by
all Service components. The Joint Construction Management System (JCMS) contains standardized criteria
used to construct a variety of buildings.

Other Key Considerations
1-63. There are other key considerations for executing general engineering tasks. These include—
 Speed.
 Economy.
 Flexibility.
 Decentralized authority.
 Establishing priorities.
1-64. Effective proactive planning and engineer initiative combine to accomplish challenges inherent in each
of the considerations. These considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs.
Speed
1-65. Speed is fundamental to all activities. Construction tasks tend to be resource-intensive for time,
materials, labor, and equipment. Planning and prioritization are essential to achieve the desired effect. Key
practices that best support speed include—
 Prior planning. Speed is a relative term if the planning before the operation did not set the
conditions for facilitating real speed in terms of mission completion. Speed requires effective,
broad, inclusive, proactive, and synchronized planning across all staff sections and engineer
capabilities.
 Use of existing facilities. Engineer units must rapidly provide facilities that enable forces to
deliver maximum combat power. The use of existing facilities greatly contributes to achieving
speed by eliminating unnecessary construction support. The use of existing ports, pipelines,
warehouses, airfields, and roads during operations is critical. Commanders and staffs must be
capable of planning and conducting real estate and real property acquisition to facilitate this effort.
Often, the joint force commander (JFC) must effectively negotiate with the host government for

1-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function









HN support to use existing facilities. In mature theaters, such as the Republic of Korea, status of
forces agreements may dictate procedures for using existing facilities.
Standardization. Standard materials and plans save time and construction efforts and permit the
streamlining of production line methods, including the prefabrication of structural members.
Standardized assembly and erecting procedures increase work crew efficiency by reducing the
number of methods and techniques required. This supports simplicity. Standardization between
Service engineers is essential for successful interoperability. For contracted construction, design
build enables standardization and streamlines resourcing and process.
Simplification. The simplicity of design and construction reduces requirements when faced with
limited labor resources, materials, and time allowances. When scarce resources are available,
simple methods and materials allow installation in a minimum amount of time. This may also
allow HN supplies and labor use to support construction.
Bare-bones construction. Military construction is characterized by using the minimum
necessities when possible. The theater commander typically makes the decision on construction
standards early in the planning process.
Phased construction. Phased construction allows for the rapid completion of critical components
of buildings or installations and uses these components for their intended purpose. Engineers
primarily use standardized time-phased automated planning tools to plan, track progress, and
visualize project progress.

Economy
1-66. General engineering requires the efficient use of personnel, equipment, and materials. To most
effectively accomplish the tasks assigned to engineers, it is necessary for commanders to carefully consider
augmentation requirements. Therefore, it is imperative that the proper assets be allocated from the engineer
force pool when task-organizing engineers. Proactive planning is the first step in the application of economy.
Other considerations include—
 Conserving labor. Construction tasks are time-consuming, and engineer commanders must
address skilled and unskilled labor shortages. Laborers must be conserved, and every skilled
engineer capability must function at the peak of their efficiency to accomplish the mission. Careful
planning and coordination of personnel are necessary. Missions must be well organized and
supervised, and personnel must be carefully allocated for the task. Select tasks can be performed
by combat engineers or other general laborers but require a conscious decision by the commander
to trade off to further general engineering tasks.
 Conserving equipment. Military construction equipment might be in short supply, particularly at
the beginning of contingency operations. Also, the operational readiness of equipment may be
impaired by shortages in repair parts and maintenance personnel. Contracting for local equipment
and repair parts to alleviate shortages is a way to remedy this issue. However, contracting for
locally sourced equipment can take 60 days or more from bidding to awarding of the contract.
Preventive maintenance of equipment is essential to ensure the availability of long-term use.
Commanders must ensure that time is allocated for scheduled preventative maintenance checks
and services to maximize equipment availability.
 Conserving materials. The critical aspect of completing a task is often the availability of
appropriate materials. Although planners should maximize the use of local resources in their area
of responsibility (AOR), these resources may not be available or may be in short supply. Planners
must anticipate shipping materials from outside the area of operations, which may require longer
transit times. The conservation of materials while executing tasks is an essential consideration.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-13

Chapter 1





Evaluating environmental factors. Apply environmental considerations early in the process.
While some situations require putting aside risk associated with environmental considerations, the
earlier the risk is mitigated, the easier and less complex mitigation procedures will need to be to
be employed later. As the staff proponent for environmental issues, engineers must analyze
environmental considerations and recommend appropriate courses of action (COAs) to the
commander. If an environmental baseline survey (EBS) and an occupational and environmental
health site assessment (OESHA) are required, ensure that they are performed early in the process.
See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B) and NTRP 4-02.9/AFTTP 3-2.82_IP/ATP
4-02.82 for more information on environmental forms and evaluation procedures.
Evaluating financial factors. The types of funding and financial considerations involved are
identified in FM 3-34, JP 3-34, and MCWP 3-34. Identifying appropriate funding sources and
properly using funding resources are important economic applications.

Flexibility
1-67. Units must be flexible enough to rapidly transition from all types of operations, and engineers must be
agile in applying the general engineering principle of flexibility to facilitate this transition. To meet this
requirement, use standard plans that allow for adjustment, expansion, and contraction when possible. For
example, a standard building plan may be easily adapted for use as an office, barracks, hospital ward, or
dining facility. Forward airfields should be designed and located so that they can later be expanded into more
robust facilities that are capable of handling larger aircraft and a larger maximum (aircraft) on ground (MOG)
capacity. Standardization enhances flexibility.
1-68. Flexibility facilitates versatility between Service engineers and within engineer organizations to
accomplish tasks. This includes providing selected technical expertise and equipment to a variety of engineer
organizations to perform general engineering missions that they are not specifically designed for or organized
to perform. Mission command is an approach to command and control that empowers engineer leaders and
decentralized execution appropriate to the situation. It capitalizes on subordinate ingenuity, innovation, and
decision-making to achieve the commander’s intent during ambiguous situations (see ADP 6-0). Engineer
units must take a mission command approach and display a multifunctional ability when performing engineer
tasks outside their mission-essential task list. An example is using combat engineer organized units tasked to
perform selected general engineering tasks. However, this type of decision requires a risk analysis and higher
echelon commander approval. This ensures that the engineers are not removed from performing other, more
critical missions in supporting movement and maneuver for BCTs and other combat forces.
1-69. The basic deployability of engineer organizations and their designed modularity is due to the enablers
of flexibility and command and control. Engineers must be ready to send only those assets specifically
required to perform a mission. They must establish functional, high-performing teams from a variety of Army
engineer units while maximizing capabilities from multi-Service engineer organizations. The integration of
commercial engineer equipment and the flexibility of command-and-control systems must be able to support
subordinate decision-making and decentralized execution.
Decentralization of Authority
1-70. The wide dispersion of forces in the area of operations requires decentralizing engineer authority as
much as possible. The engineer commander or engineer staff officer responsible for operations at a particular
location must be granted authority that is consistent with responsibilities. As previously noted, this is
particularly important in noncontiguous areas.
1-71. The decentralization of authority requires effective command and control, normally employing mission
command and flexibility of its application to integrate the variety of engineer capabilities and accomplish
selected general engineering tasks or missions. Service engineers must strive for seamless integration
between units and capabilities to meet joint or component commander needs.

1-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Discipline and Function

Priority Establishment
1-72. A lack of resources (planning and design capability and capacity, funding, equipment, personnel,
systems, logistics) severely impedes the commander from executing necessary general engineering tasks
concurrently. Therefore, careful prioritization must occur. It is essential to establish priorities to determine
how much general engineer effort must be devoted to a single task. While detailed mission orders for the
priority systems are usually the concern of lower echelon commands, all levels (beginning with the JFC,
Army Service component command [ASCC], and Marine Corps component commands [MCCCs]) must
issue directives that establish broad system priorities to serve as guides for implementation. Resources are
initially assigned only to the highest-priority tasks. Low-priority tasks are left undone, while recognizing and
assessing the risk of doing so. At the theater level, planners can assume general priorities for initial phases
of an operation and refine the priorities as the planning effort matures. Project approval processes and
acquisition review boards ensure an equitable distribution of resources according to established priorities.
1-73. (USMC) Computers can be used to manage the collaborative activities related to prioritizing and
approving general engineer projects. Electronic collaboration can be very beneficial, especially when units
are operating in a noncontiguous or distributed manner. Ideally, business rules for managing general engineer
projects should be included in an organizational SOP. When this is not the case, these rules should be
established so that units requesting engineer support—and units capable of fulfilling engineer support
requests—can be connected with the engineer staff that reviews, prioritizes, and submits support requests for
approval by the common senior commander. Other factors to consider in business rules include standard
formats for support requests, timelines for submission, and required documentation.

GENERAL ENGINEERING COMMAND AND SUPPORT RELATIONSHIPS
1-74. One of the most critical aspects of ensuring adequate support is assigning the proper command and
support relationship to subordinate units. Engineer staff officers must carefully examine the required effort
when recommending command and support relationships. See ADP 6-0, FM 3-34, and JP 3-34 for additional
information on command and support relations.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

1-15

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 2

General Engineering Support to Operations
This chapter discusses the general engineering support required across the competition
continuum spanning the levels of warfare—from the theater and operational level to
the tactical level. It also discusses how general engineering supports offensive,
defensive, and stability operations and DSCA tasks. Engineers are considered to be a
force multiplier and are employed by the commander to maximize their capabilities in
enhancing operations. Engineers play a key role in contributing to the support of
military operations.

COMPETITION CONTINUUM
2-1. Commanders use engineers to support mobility, enhance protection, enable force projection and
sustainment/logistics, build partner capacity, and develop and maintain infrastructure. General engineering
is the engineering capabilities and activities (other than combat engineering) that modify, maintain, and
protect the physical environment. It is primarily focused on affecting terrain and may include support to the
range of military operations in the homeland and abroad.
2-2. General engineering occurs throughout the area of operations at all levels of warfare during every type
of military operation and may include the employment of DOD Civilians, USACE, contractors, HN forces,
and multinational engineers. Army general engineering organizational capabilities are discussed in
ATP 3-34.22 and FM 3-34. Marine Corps organizational capabilities are discussed in MCWP 3-34.
2-3. General engineering tasks may occur simultaneously at different levels and may support multiple
operations. The purpose, priority, effort, and timeline to complete a task may be changed significantly based
on a change in priority of the primary operation it supports or based on a change in the strategic, operational,
or tactical situation.
2-4. The Army has specialized engineer units that are normally employed at the theater or operational levels
and that augment capabilities at the tactical level. Most of the specialized engineer units are teams or sections
that require support from the supported unit. These specialized units may provide limited support, in quantity
and duration, at the tactical level without sustainment/combat service support.
2-5. General and combat engineers perform engineering tasks at different levels. For example, general
engineers typically perform mobility at the operational level, while combat engineers focus on mobility at
the tactical level. Likewise, survivability (see ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C) is supported by general engineers
at the operational level, while combat engineers support survivability at the tactical level.
2-6. The general engineer effort at the theater or operational level is coordinated and synchronized with
tactical level combat. At the operational level, general engineer activities are not normally conducted as part
of a combined arms mission because of the inherent nature of direct-fire potential with the enemy. All tasks
are coordinated with the maneuver commander responsible for the area of operations.
2-7. General engineer units may follow and support combat engineers as they transfer bridges, roads,
bypasses, or forward tactical airfields to allow forward movement with maneuver units. These tactical efforts
may then become operational efforts that have to be maintained or upgraded. For example, in some situations,
tactical trails may become roads, and those roads may be upgraded to MSRs. To reduce the construction
effort, it is more likely that existing roads would be upgraded.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

2-1

Chapter 2

STRATEGIC, THEATER, AND OPERATIONAL LEVELS
2-8. General engineering provides support at strategic, theater, and operational levels to enable force
projection and sustainment/logistics, enhance protection, build partner capacity, and develop infrastructure.
USACE typically operates at the theater level in support of national strategic objectives as the Army’s defense
construction agent and to provide FFE capabilities to the theater.
2-9. At the operational level, the theater engineer command (TEC) or engineer brigade planners anticipate
the impact of geography, force projection infrastructure, and available general engineer units within the area
of operations to support the CCDR’s theater campaign plan or operational design. These planners must
understand the capabilities and limitations of all available general engineer forces (including U.S., allies, HN,
and contracted capabilities), prioritize limited assets, and mitigate risks. They also develop the scheme of
basing and environmental assessments, request geospatial products and services, recommend survivability
measures, and request the capabilities to meet requirements. As the link to tactical engineer integration,
general engineer planners set the conditions for success at the tactical level by adequately anticipating
requirements and by ensuring that general engineering capacity is available and requested from higher
headquarters.

GENERAL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
2-10. General engineering at theater and operational levels includes support to—
 Force projection.
 Force deployment.
 Theater access.
 Assured mobility.
 Theater opening and closing.
 Infrastructure planning.
 Infrastructure development.
 Partner capacity building.
 Master planning.
 LOC.
 Base camp development.
 Base camp operation.
 Base camp maintenance and closure.
 Construction management.
 Protection.
 Logistics.
2-11. General engineer units support the offense, defense, stability, or DSCA operations at theater and
operational levels. Combat engineer units may provide support at theater and operational levels if it is
available or if the condition requires close support to maneuver forces that are in close combat.
2-12. General engineers may also be involved in countermobility intended to achieve operational or strategic
effects. These engineering efforts focus on denying the adversary the freedom of movement and maneuver
by slowing or diverting the enemy to increase target acquisition and weapons effectiveness.
2-13. Although primarily a combat engineer task, prevalently organized general engineering units may be
assigned to supplement combat engineer efforts with engagement area development and survivability
position construction. See ADP 3-90, ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B, FM 3-34, JP 3-34, and TM 3-34.85/MCRP
3-17A for additional information on countermobility.

FORCE PROJECTION
2-14. General engineers may be required to support force projection efforts (see ADP 4-0). Force projection
is the ability to project the military instrument of national power from the United States or another theater,

2-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Support to Operations

in response to requirements for military operations (JP 3-0). Force projection includes general engineering
tasks that enhance area access from the strategic to the operational level and from peacetime locations to
assembly areas, base camps, expeditionary advanced bases, and advanced naval bases. Tasks that support
force projection may simultaneously support logistics.

ACCESS
2-15. General engineers contend with the following access types:
 Informational access to USACE resources and higher-level engineering expertise to support
engagement strategies and wartime.
 Physical access, such as forcible entry into a theater.
2-16. General engineers may be required to support efforts to gain access into a theater. Engineer efforts
ensure the mobility and flow of forces by establishing and securing an initial foothold, beachhead, or entry
point into the theater to enable follow-on forces to continue onward penetration to the objective. Like
forcible-entry, access efforts by friendly forces may be stopped and repelled by the adversary use of
counterattacks, coordinated and synchronized weaponry systems, and layered obstacle systems. See
ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A, FM 3-34, JP 3-18, JP 3-34, and TM 3-34.85/MCRP 3-17A for additional
information on mobility.
2-17. The support to early-entry includes reconnaissance that mitigates antiaccess and area-denial
mechanisms to clear and open aerial ports of debarkation and seaports of debarkation. These tasks are often
considered combat engineering tasks, even though general engineer units can perform them when conditions
allow (see FM 3-34). Geospatial engineers can provide high-resolution mapping to clarify situational
understanding of early-entry and initial area of operations at landing sites.
2-18. During access, combat engineers usually support forcible entry and the seizure and establishment of
lodgments. General engineers normally support the establishment and expansion of lodgments and bed-down
facilities.
2-19. General engineering tasks in support of area access may be required to augment combat engineers to—
 Clear beaches and remove barriers and obstacles from roads, airfields, and ports.
 Construct initial combat roads and trails, wet gap crossing entry and exit ramps, LOCs, MSRs,
support and LOC bridges, airfields, base camps, and ammunition and supply depots.
 Support countermobility and survivability efforts earlier in the entry to repel enemy counterattacks
to recover lost land.

ASSURED MOBILITY
2-20. Assured mobility is a framework—of processes, actions, and capabilities—that assures the ability of a
force to deploy, move, and maneuver where and when desired (ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A). The assured
mobility framework is enabled by the fundamentals of predict, detect, prevent, avoid, neutralize, and protect.
Assured mobility is applied at strategic, operational, and tactical levels of warfare to facilitate the
commander’s planning and awareness for freedom to move and maneuver. Combat engineering enables
tactical mobility, while general engineering enables operational mobility and supports strategic mobility. The
general engineering effort is directed at providing mobility of forces—from ports of debarkation to forward
areas.
2-21. The fundamentals of assured mobility and the specific linkages to general engineering are—
 Predict. Engineers and other planners must accurately predict potential enemy impediments to
mobility by analyzing enemy tactics, techniques, procedures, capabilities, and evolutions.
Prediction requires an updated understanding and awareness of the operational environment.
Planners apply predict to understand the impact of enemy and military operations on the
infrastructure required to maintain mobility and momentum. For example, they must predict the
damage to an MSR caused by the movement of a large mechanized force over a single route.
 Detect. Using information collection assets, engineers and other planners identify early indicators
for the location of natural and man-made obstacles, make preparations to create or emplace

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

2-3

Chapter 2









obstacles, and determine potential means for obstacle creation. They also identify actual and
potential obstacles and propose solutions and alternate COAs to minimize or eliminate potential
effects. Planners must be aware of the effects to strategic, operational, and tactical mobility
impacted by general engineering function solutions.
Prevent. Engineers and other planners apply this fundamental by denying the enemy the ability
to influence mobility. This is accomplished by forces acting proactively before obstacles are
emplaced or activated, including executing aggressive action to destroy enemy assets and
capabilities before they can be used to create obstacles. Political considerations and the rules of
engagement may hinder the ability to apply this fundamental early in a contingency. Commanders
apply general engineering capabilities in a timely manner to prevent mobility impediments to the
force. An example of support to this fundamental is constructing a bridge bypass before a bridge
becomes unusable.
Avoid. If prevention fails, the commander maneuvers forces to avoid impediments to mobility if
it is viable within the scheme of maneuver. General engineering is an integral part of the maneuver
unit ability to avoid such impediments. Examples of tasks that support this fundamental are
building roads around natural or man-made obstacles, constructing alternate airfields, and
implementing other actions that allow maneuver units to operate effectively.
Neutralize. Engineers and other planners plan to neutralize, reduce, or overcome obstacles and
impediments as soon as possible to allow the unrestricted movement of forces. The breaching
tenants and fundamentals apply to the fundamental of neutralize. An example task to support this
fundamental is building a support or LOC bridge that neutralizes a river obstacle.
Protect. Engineers and other elements plan and implement survivability and other protection/force
protection measures that deny the enemy the ability to inflict damage on maneuver units. This
includes executing countermobility missions to deny the enemy the ability to maneuver and
providing protection to friendly maneuvering forces. Commanders can ensure that general
engineering efforts focus on survivability support (berms, bunkers, hardened facilities, and other
protective works), which is primarily centered on the hardening aspect of survivability as
described in ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C.

2-22. The assured mobility construct enables a joint force to achieve the commander’s intent. Assured
mobility emphasizes proactive mobility and countermobility, supports survivability, and integrates engineer
functions to accomplish this. Assured mobility is broader than mobility and should not be confused with the
limited application of mobility as described in ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A. Assured mobility focuses on
supporting the maneuver commander’s ability to gain a position of advantage in relation to the enemy. This
can be accomplished by conducting mobility to negate the impact of enemy obstacles, conducting
countermobility to impact and shape enemy maneuver, or conducting a combination of mobility and
countermobility.
2-23. Assured mobility is an integrating process related to each Army warfighting function and is similar to
targeting, risk management, and intelligence preparation of the battlefield/battlespace. As an integrating
process, assured mobility provides linkage between the tasks associated with mobility, countermobility, and
survivability and their roles across the warfighting functions. Assured mobility applies in all operations and
across the competition continuum. While it is an enabler of warfighting functions and other integrating
processes, other integrating processes also enable assured mobility. The purpose of assured mobility is to
ensure the freedom of maneuver, preserve combat power throughout the area of operations, and exploit
superior situational understanding.

INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
2-24. General engineers may be required to support infrastructure development in support of force
projection, theater opening, and sustainment (see ADP 4-0). Theater opening is the ability to establish and
operate ports of debarkation (air, sea, and rail) to establish a distribution system and sustainment/combat
service support bases. It also facilitates port throughput for the reception staging, onward movement, and
integration of forces (see ADP 4-0). Engineer efforts focus on ensuring that the structural framework is in
place to support a network of bases, a logistics network, a transportation network, and interconnecting service
facilities to sustain forces.

2-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Support to Operations

2-25. General engineering tasks supporting infrastructure development may include—
 Establishing and maintaining the infrastructure necessary for supporting early-entry and followon forces in support of force projection and for sustaining military operations.
 Conducting master planning and design, construction, and real estate actions.
 Coordinating for environmental and geospatial support, O&M, and assessment.
 Continuing to improve, upgrade, and expand infrastructure as the theater matures and
requirements increase.
 Preparing for drawdown or closure as operations change or near completion.
 Constructing seaports, airfields, bases, and mass logistics storage facilities.
 Developing water, power, and integrated waste management systems (see ADP 4-0 and JP 3-34).

PROTECTION
2-26. Army and Marine Corps forces face hybrid threats, which are described as the diverse and dynamic
combination of regular forces, irregular forces, terrorist forces, and/or criminal elements unified to achieve
mutually benefitting effects (ADP 3-0). These forces and elements can employ hostile actions to inflict
serious damage on personnel, physical assets, or information. Such hostile actions pose threats to
survivability requiring adequate protection of personnel and physical assets.
2-27. Survivability has two aspects: avoiding and withstanding. Avoiding can include concealment,
camouflage, and dispersion. Withstanding can include construction or the hardening of protective positions.
There are a variety of protective measures that can be employed. These measures are discussed in the
following paragraphs.
2-28. Hostile actions usually involve the employment of weapons. ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C addresses
various types of weapons effects and the design considerations to mitigate them.
2-29. Adversaries use sensors to increase the effectiveness of weapons. Sensor systems are categorized based
on the component of the electromagnetic spectrum in which they operate. ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C
addresses sensor systems and the principles and techniques for using camouflage and concealment to defeat
them.
2-30. Concealment protective measures include the use of weather effects, battlefield dust, debris, smoke
munitions, or other potential obscurants to hamper observation and target acquisition capability or to conceal
activities or movement. Battlefield obscuration is typically provided by smoke grenades, generated smoke,
or fires, which can conceal friendly positions and screen maneuvering forces from enemy observation. See
ATP 3-11.50 for additional information on the employment of obscurants. See ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C
for more information on camouflage, concealment, and decoys.
2-31. Hazards associated with the surrounding environment also pose threats. Weather conditions, natural
disasters, diseases, and terrain-related hazards are common examples.
2-32. Although it is often considered to be a part of countermobility, another protective measure is the use
of obstacles, which is a key enabler to ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C. Obstacles provide friendly forces with
close-in
protection,
which
enhances
the
effectiveness
of
survivability
positions.
See ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B for additional information on protective obstacles.
2-33. Military forces are composed of personnel and physical assets, each having their own inherent
survivability qualities or capabilities that can be enhanced through various means and methods. Although
units conduct survivability planning within the limits of their capabilities, the Army and Marine Corps have
a broad range of diverse engineer capabilities that can enhance unit survivability, which is discussed in
ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C.
2-34. General engineers may be required to support the preservation of the force so that the commander can
apply maximum combat power (see ADP 3-37). Engineers possess unique equipment and personnel
capabilities that can be used directly to support survivability and related protection efforts. General engineer
support to protection and survivability continues as improvements are continuously reassessed and additional
assets are made available. See ADP 3-37, ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C, ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B, FM 3-34,
JP 3-15, JP 3-34, TM 3-34.30, and TM 3-34.85/MCRP 3-17A.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

2-5

Chapter 2

2-35. At the operational level, general engineer support is continuously conducted to harden and prepare
positions for facilities and installations. Engineers possess unique equipment and personnel capabilities that
can be used directly to support survivability and related protection efforts.
2-36. General engineer tasks in support of protection may include—
 Constructing field fortifications.
 Hardening critical infrastructure and facilities.
 Preparing protective positions.
 Emplacing protective obstacles around critical fixed sites, such as base camps and sustainment
sites.
 Conducting signature management.
2-37. Tasks supporting protection tend to be equipment- and manual labor-intensive and may require the use
of equipment timelines to optimize the use of low-density, critical equipment.

SUSTAINMENT/LOGISTICS
2-38. General engineering capabilities are often required to support sustainment (see ADP 4-0). Engineer
efforts help ensure the continuous and uninterrupted flow of material, equipment, and supplies to the force.
Engineers can combine all three disciplines to establish and maintain the infrastructure necessary for
sustaining logistics in the area of operations.
2-39. Tasks supporting sustainment/logistics may include—
 Building, repairing, and maintaining roads, bridges, airfields, ammunition supply points,
warehouses, supply points, maintenance facilities, waste management facilities, and open
structures for aerial ports of debarkation, seaports of debarkation, MSRs, base camps, and (USMC)
expeditionary advanced bases and advanced naval bases.
 Expanding the infrastructure base to accommodate increased logistics demands. Such tasks can
include constructing larger storage facilities, enlarging seaports and airfields, and upgrading the
transportation network (such as strengthening and widening roads and improving bridges) to
accommodate increased volume and logistics traffic flow.
 Planning, acquiring, managing, and remediating real estate.
 Providing power system support, waste management support, environmental support, and
firefighting support.
 Supporting joint logistics over-the-shore (JLOTS), force projection, or access (see FM 3-34 and
JP 3-34 for more information on engineer support).

TACTICAL LEVEL
2-40. General engineering does not provide close support to maneuver forces that are in close combat and
provides less direct support to offensive and defensive operations. General engineer support tasks to the
offense and defense are mostly at the operational level, but they can accomplish tactical-level tasks that
exceed the combat engineer force capability. General engineering may provide more support to defense in
the rear area and provide significant support to stability and DSCA. General engineering also supports
protection/force protection and logistics at the tactical level. See ADP 3-0, ADP 3-07, ADP 3-90, FM 3-34,
and JP 3-34 for additional information. Marine Corps general engineering units can support distributed
maritime operations from expeditionary advanced bases or advanced naval bases.

OFFENSIVE
2-41. The main offensive focus is using engineer support for movement and maneuver. General engineer
support is primarily focused on the tasks that support mobility. The general engineer function reinforces
combat engineering, enables logistics, and develops infrastructure. Enabling sustainment/combat service
support includes the creation and sustainment of LOCs and bed-down facilities.

2-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Support to Operations

2-42. General engineer tasks that support the offense include—
 Supporting theater access (seaports, airfields, bed-down facilities).
 Supporting mobility.
 Constructing and repairing bridges.
 Constructing and repairing roads, airfields, and heliports that support the mobility of the maneuver
force.
 Conducting earthmoving.
 Conducting engineer reconnaissance.
 Conducting area damage control that supports the mobility of the maneuver force.
 Constructing facilities for detainees, enemy prisoners of war and dislocated civilians.

DEFENSIVE
2-43. The primary defensive focus is using engineer support to enhance movement and protection. The
general engineer function reinforces combat engineering and enables protection. Countermobility tasks are
dominant, but some support to mobility may be provided to ensure the ability of forces to freely move and
maneuver. The engineer primary protection task is support to survivability. (Countermobility and combined
arms obstacle integration are discussed in ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B and JP 3-15. Protection is discussed in
ADP 3-37. Survivability is discussed in ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C.
2-44. General engineer tasks that support the defense include—
 Constructing entry control points.
 Erecting barriers to deny access to fixed sites.
 Providing area damage control and assessments.
 Supporting survivability.
 Hardening facilities.
 Constructing sustainment sites.
 Constructing decontamination sites.
2-45. Horizontal and vertical engineer units will likely conduct combat engineering tasks to support the
defense during large-scale combat operations. Additional security must be provided if tactical conditions do
not exceed their capability to protect themselves (see ADP 3-90 and FM 3-90-1).
2-46. Engineer planners should use their knowledge of the conditions in a specific area of operations to
predict and estimate the level of effort by examining the condition of the infrastructure (ports, roads, bridges,
airfields, utilities). An assessment of the physical environment (including environmental considerations
affecting the mission) assists in determining the scope, level, and type of general engineer requirements.

STABILITY
2-47. General engineers may be required to support stability operations. See ADP 3-07, JP 3-07, and
MCIP 3-03.1i/NWP 3-07/COMDTINST M3120.11 for more information on stability. Stability tasks are
conducted as part of operations outside of the United States, in coordination with other instruments of national
power, to maintain or reestablish a safe and secure environment and to provide essential government services,
emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief.
2-48. The primary stability focus is using engineer support to stabilize a region by improving the
infrastructure and integrating with and supporting other forces in their missions. Maritime force engineers
(Marines and Seabees) are capable of performing emergency repair of maritime infrastructure under varying
conditions of instability. These engineers may embark in amphibious ships or be airlifted to locations (see
MCIP 3-03.li/NWP 3-07/COMDTINST M3120.11). Most overall engineer effort during a stability operation
is likely to be through the general engineering function.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

2-7

Chapter 2

2-49. General engineering tasks may support all stability tasks, but they are not only associated with stability.
The purpose, desired effect, and conditions for the task may differ in stability, which may affect how the task
is accomplished. For example, a task to support stability may be accomplished with the involvement of more
HN participation.
2-50. In addition to their normal support of U.S. forces, general engineering tasks primarily focus on the
reconstruction or establishment of services that support the population in conjunction with civilian agencies.
Engineers conducting missions provide resources to assist in disaster or theater response in areas outside U.S.
territory. Rapid and effectively emplaced sustainment/combat service support can reduce human injuries and
fatalities and harden infrastructure.
2-51. General engineer support for the restoration of essential services and infrastructure development is the
primary engineer focus in stability operations. Essential services for engineer considerations include food
and water, emergency shelter, and infrastructure assessment. The infrastructure assessment is normally
conducted by a core team of engineering specialties that integrate expertise in—and equipment with—other
technical specialties (medical, CA, military police) to enhance the quality and completeness of the survey.
See ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) for a full discussion of infrastructure reconnaissance.
General engineering tasks may also support the movement of civilian populations.
2-52. General engineering support may be necessary for sustainment/combat service support units
conducting stability operations. Stability operations tend to have a longer duration than offensive and
defensive operations. See ADP 3-07 and FM 3-07 for additional information on stability. As such, the level
of effort is very high at the onset and gradually decreases as the theater matures. As the area of operations
matures, the general engineering effort normally transfers to civilian contractors, such as to those who operate
under a logistics civil augmentation program. Given the nature of stability, the risks associated with
environmental hazards may have greater importance and impact in stability than in offensive or defensive
operations.
2-53. Support to stability is primarily focused on tasks to build partner capacity; build infrastructure; and
assure mobility, sustainment/combat service support, and protection. Countermobility and survivability are
dominant, but some support to mobility may be provided to ensure the ability of forces to freely move and
maneuver.
2-54. General engineer tasks that support stability may include—
 Conducting infrastructure reconnaissance (survey and assessment).
 Providing infrastructure development (reconstructing or establishing infrastructure to provide
essential services that support the population, developing HN capability and capacity, providing
water resources).
 Constructing base camps and force bed-down facilities.
 Constructing survivability positions and other force protection support.
 Constructing support area facilities.
 Providing infrastructure support, including utilities and other essential services.
 Providing reliable electrical power.
 Providing LOC construction, maintenance, and repair.
 Conducting an Environmental Baseline Survey (DD Form 2993).
2-55. General engineering support to countermobility includes tasks such as traffic or population control.
Entry control facilities may be required at base camps or support facilities.
2-56. Stability operations may include humanitarian and civic assistance. Army and Marine forces act as part
of a joint force with the United States country team and the United States Agency for International
Development.
2-57. General engineers may be required to provide support to Special Forces (see FM 3-34,
JP 3-0, and JP 3-34). Such tasks could be diverse and range from military engagements to large-scale combat
operations. They could also include training others in demining techniques, providing technical capabilities
to restore essential services, and providing infrastructure reconstruction and humanitarian relief to
demonstrate U.S. commitment.

2-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Support to Operations

HOMELAND DEFENSE
2-58. The military will continue to play a vital role in securing the homeland through the execution of
homeland defense. General engineers must be prepared to provide the required effort and resources when
necessary.
2-59. Homeland defense is the protection of United States sovereignty, territory, domestic population, and
critical infrastructure against external threats and aggression or other threats as directed by the President
(JP 3-27). DOD is the lead for these missions.
2-60. The strategy for homeland defense necessitates securing the United States from attack through an
active, layered defense. DOD engineering capabilities, coupled with the commercial sector or with contractor
capabilities, can provide extensive, in-depth engineering for homeland defense (see JP 3-27). Massive
national general engineer support may be garnered from local, state, and federal resources via a multitude of
avenues or agreements.
2-61. General engineers may be required to augment national efforts in homeland defense. Engineer support
could be directed toward offensive and defensive operations if supporting homeland defense. See JP 3-27 for
additional information on homeland security. See JP 3-26 for more information on the overarching homeland
security framework.
2-62. Homeland defense and DSCA are separate mission sets with different leads. See JP 3-28 for a review
of the relationship between homeland defense, homeland security, and DSCA.

DEFENSE SUPPORT OF CIVIL AUTHORITIES
2-63. During a major crisis or severe disaster, the military and DOD may be required to rapidly respond to
requests for assistance from civil authorities. These requests may include domestic emergency support, law
enforcement support, domestic activity support, or support from qualifying entities for special events. In a
DSCA scenario, civil authorities are the lead for the missions while the military is in a support role.
2-64. Defense support of civil authorities is support provided by United States Federal military forces, DOD
civilians, DOD contract personnel, DOD Component assets, and National Guard forces (when the Secretary
of Defense, in coordination with the Governors of the affected states, elects and requests to use those forces
in title 32, U.S.C., status) in response to requests for assistance from civil authorities for domestic
emergencies, law enforcement support, and other domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special
events (DODD 3025.18). General engineers are typically prominently tasked to support DSCA. See
ADP 3-28; ATP 3-28.1/MCRP 3-30.6/NTTP 3-57.2/AFTTP 3-2.67/CGTTP 3-57.1, DODD 3025.18;
DODI 3025.21; JP 3-28; and MCO 3440.7C for additional information on DCSA.
2-65. In national preparedness doctrine, any type of domestic disaster, emergency, or event requiring support
may be called an incident. An incident is an occurrence, caused by either human action or natural phenomena,
that requires action to prevent or minimize loss of life, or damage, loss of, or other risks to property,
information or natural resources (JP 3-28). General engineers must be prepared to provide support to civil
authorities by rendering assistance in any of those areas when required. Army National Guard engineers can
be called on during emergencies by the governor of a state under Title 32, United States Code (32 USC). The
term civil support has been superseded by DSCA, except when the National Guard is conducting these
missions in state active-duty status or 32 USC status to civil authorities for domestic emergencies or for
designated law enforcement and other activities.
2-66. For military forces, the primary tasks associated with DSCA include—
 Providing support for domestic disasters.
 Providing support for domestic chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) incidents.
 Providing support for domestic civilian law enforcement agencies.
 Providing other designated support.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

2-9

Chapter 2

2-67. Support to DSCA is primarily focused on tasks that enable sustainment/combat service support and
enhance protection. General engineering tasks supporting DCSA include—
 Focusing on first responder and population mobility.
 Reinforcing civil authorities.
 Supporting military forces by enabling logistics, repairing infrastructures, and restoring critical
services.
 Repairing or restoring selected civil and commercial infrastructure that provides water, power,
communication, transportation, and other essential utilities that military forces and DOD support
organizations depend on to meet operational needs.
2-68. There are few unique general engineering tasks performed in DSCA that are not performed during
other operations. The difference is the context in which they are performed (see ADP 3-28). Because of the
unique nature of the hazard or threat, planning for DSCA is significantly different than planning for offense,
defense, or stability tasks, although the basic missions may be similar to those of stability tasks. For example,
the hazard or threat will most likely be a natural or man-made disaster with unpredictable consequences. The
military will assume a support role to DSCA.
Notes.
1. See FM 3-34 for a discussion of engineer capabilities that could be applied to support DSCA
requirements.
2. See ATP 3-28.1/MCRP 3-30.6/NTTP 3-57.2/AFTTP 3-2.67/CGTTP 3-57.1 for more
information on specific DSCA tasks and planning considerations.
3. See ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C for information on considerations for stability or DSCA tasks.
2-69. General engineer support for the restoration of essential services after an incident is the primary
engineer focus in DSCA. Engineer support may also be required for forces providing DSCA command to
government agencies at all levels until they can function normally.
2-70. There are 15 national emergency support functions used by the federal government and states as the
primary means to organize and provide assistance. General engineers may be tasked to support some of them.
Each emergency support function is identified and discussed in ADP 3-28, ATP 3-28.1/MCRP 3-30.6/
NTTP 3-57.2/AFTTP 3-2.67/CGTTP 3-57.1, and JP 3-28.
2-71. For engineers, the most applicable function is the Emergency Support Function #3–Public Works and
Engineering Annex. USACE is the primary coordinating agency for this emergency support function that is
responsible for providing technical advice and evaluations, engineering systems, construction management
and inspection procedures, emergency contracting procedures, emergency wastewater and solid waste facility
repair, debris handling and removal, and roadway maintenance and openings following presidential disaster
declarations (see ADP 3-28).
2-72. The overall scope of Emergency Support Function #3–Public Works and Engineering Annex includes
infrastructure protection and emergency repair, infrastructure restoration, engineering service and
construction management, and emergency contracting support for lifesaving and life-sustaining services.
Some examples of general engineering support to provide or restore essential services may include—
 Supporting urban search and rescue.
 Providing food and water.
 Constructing base camps for emergency shelter.
 Providing emergency transportation.
 Providing boats during flooding.
 Providing trucks for hauling critical supplies and equipment.
 Providing hauling assets for population movement.
 Providing public works and other engineering support.
 Providing firefighting support.

2-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

General Engineering Support to Operations





Providing deployable prime power systems.
Providing basic sanitation (sewage and waste disposal).
Assisting local responders in providing minimum essential access to affected areas.

2-73. General engineering support to DSCA, first responders, supporting units, or the population may
include—
 Supporting mobility by rubble and debris removal.
 Restoring and maintaining transportation infrastructure networks (roads, bridges, airfields,
seaports, heliports).
 Conducting infrastructure reconnaissance, assessment, and technical assistance.
 Conducting emergency demolition.
 Providing diver support.
2-74. General engineering support may be required for force sustainment/combat service support and
protection requirements and may be extended to support other agencies during DSCA. Likely missions
include—
 Debris removal.
 Route clearance.
 Expedient (temporary) road and trail construction and repair.
 Forward aviation combat engineering (including the repair of paved, asphalt, and concrete
runways and airfields).
 Temporary bridging construction.
 Port, airfield, reception, staging, forward movement, and integration facility upgrades and
construction.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

2-11

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 3

Planning and Design
Effective planning and design are essential for enhancing mission success. At the
CCDR level, planning and design are conceptual in scope; at lower levels, they are
more detailed. At the lowest tactical level, planning and design capability is limited
because the engineer unit is focused on mission execution. Planning and design are
separate tasks, but this chapter discusses them together because they are closely related
and influence each other. Design is an extension of planning, and both are interrelated
and complementary processes. Planning and design integrate engineering capabilities
and balance tactical, operational, sustainment/combat service support, protection, and
engineering requirements. There is no single correct plan or design; instead, there is a
range of acceptable solutions. This chapter provides an overview for general
engineering planning and discusses its terminology, requirements, tools,
MDMP/MCPP, engineer work line, UFC, and FFE.

JOINT GENERAL ENGINEERING PLANNING
3-1. The primary joint doctrinal publication for planning general engineering support is JP 3-34. The Air
Force and Navy have a narrower focus for general engineering than does the Army and often refers to it as
civil engineering. The Air Force and Navy consider general (civil) engineering to be primarily a logistics
function that is executed to sustain forces in a contingency operation. Their activities tend to focus on
missions, such as base camp and life support development, seaport of debarkation construction and repair,
aerial ports of embarkation, and other facilities or sites. The Marine Corps is primarily organized and
equipped to provide combat engineering; however, they do possess a limited general engineering capability
to support operations.
3-2. Joint planning takes a comprehensive look at coordinating, integrating, and synchronizing the
capabilities from each service and contractor support to produce the synergy of effort as the situation requires.
This helps commanders and their staffs visualize and design a broad approach to mission accomplishment
early in the planning process, which makes detailed planning more efficient (see JP 1 Vol 1 and JP 3-0.).
3-3. Engineers should contact the contracting command to determine existing contracting support and to
plan for additional contractor support. Contracted support could include supplies (materials), services
(design, operation, maintenance), labor, or construction. See Defense Contingency Contracting Handbook,
ATP 4-10, JP 3-34, and JP 4-10 for an overview of each Service capability.

JOINT OPERATIONS PLANNING PROCESS
3-4. The joint operations planning process underpins planning at all levels and for missions across the
competition continuum. Joint engineer planning may occur under several staffing options: an engineer special
staff element or an engineer staff section within the operations or logistics directorate of a joint staff. The
engineer staff actively participates in the planning process on the joint staff, addresses all potential engineer
requirements, and provides the required products. They also plan for conducting an EBS and obtaining real
estate support to obtain land leases.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-1

Chapter 3

3-5. Construction planning and design (along with preparation, execution, and assessment) are often
collaborative efforts between higher headquarters, constructing units, facility commanders, and users or
tenants. See JP 1 Vol 1 and JP 3-0 for a discussion of the joint operations planning process. See JP 3-34 for
engineer contributions in operation plans (OPLANs) and operation orders (OPORDs).
3-6. Careful consideration during planning and execution for command and support relationships helps to
effectively achieve a seamless integration of general engineering support to operations. The overarching
doctrine for command and support relationships of engineer forces is contained in ADP 6-0, FM 3-34, MCWP
3-34, JP 3-0, and JP 3-34.
3-7. General engineering involves the application of technical knowledge and judgment to make trade-offs
among competing requirements and to recommend solutions to difficult problems. Construction outside the
United States may also be governed by DOD guidance, status of forces agreements, final governing
standards, HN-funded construction agreements and, in some instances, bilateral infrastructure agreements.
Planners and designers must ensure compliance with the more stringent standards, as applicable.

JOINT ENGINEER SUPPORT PLAN
3-8. The joint engineer support plan (Annex D, Logistics, and Appendix 6, Construction Standards) is
produced by a joint staff engineer for input to the joint OPLAN as part of the deliberate planning process. It
identifies the minimum mission-essential wartime requirement for engineering services and construction
standards in support of military forces. Other portions of a joint OPLAN or OPORD for general engineering
planning include—
 Appendix 9, Air Base Operability to Annex C, Operations.
 Appendix 14, Force Protection to Annex C, Operations.
 Appendix 15, Critical Asset Risk Management to Annex C, Operations.
 Appendix 5, Mobility and Transportation to Annex D, Logistics.
 Annex L, Environmental Considerations.
 Annex W, Operational Contract Support.
3-9. General engineers assigned as joint engineer staff officers must be well trained to effectively plan and
synchronize joint engineering capabilities as members of a JFC staff. Action officers must be well versed in
the complexities of the joint force capabilities of all Service engineer forces to maximize the use of their
capabilities.
3-10. Army and Marine Corps engineers must recognize that other Service engineers organize and equip
their engineer forces for different functions and adapt their capabilities to meet specific needs. This is
particularly necessary where each Service has capabilities and limitations. JP 3-34 provides the necessary
baseline planning information for all Service engineer capabilities.

JOINT ENGINEER BOARDS
3-11. Various joint boards assist the JFC or JTF commander in establishing priorities and policies for general
engineering capacity. Three typical boards include the joint civil-military engineering board, joint facilities
utilization board, and joint environmental management board.
3-12. Other boards or cells may also be created as required. Each board addresses a separate need within the
joint force and is described in JP 3-34. The JFC tailors the scope, roles, and responsibilities of each board to
meet specific operational needs. To adequately integrate and synchronize general engineering efforts,
engineers must possess a good working knowledge of the doctrinal aspects of the board and the theaterspecific procedures.

KEY JOINT TERMS THAT AFFECT GENERAL ENGINEERING PLANNING
3-13. Operational contract support is the process of obtaining goods, services, and construction via
contracting means in support of contingency operations (JP 4-10). Various continental U.S. or outside the
continental United States acquisition regulations or policies may apply to the functions associated with
contract support integration, contracting support, and contractor management. Operational contract support

3-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

affects various commands and staffs that should address operational contract support requirements and
incorporate operational contract support planning into the command planning and execution cycle.
3-14. A contingency engineering management organization is an organization formed by the combatant
commander, or subordinate JFC to augment their staffs with additional Service engineering expertise for
planning and construction management (JP 3-34). Contingency engineering management cells should be
staffed with representation from Service component engineer personnel who possess expertise across the
engineer functions.
3-15. A Department of Defense construction agent is the Corps of Engineers, Naval Facilities Engineering
Command, or other such approved Department of Defense activity, that is assigned design or execution
responsibilities associated with military construction programs, facilities support, or civil engineering support
to the combatant commanders in contingency operations (JP 3-34). The responsibilities of DOD construction
agents include the design, award, and management of construction contracts for projects associated with the
peacetime military construction program. Overseas, USACE, NAVFAC, and the Air Force are assigned specific
geographical areas under DODD 4270.5. T hese responsibilities include the leasing of real estate.
3-16. An environmental baseline survey is a multi-disciplinary site survey conducted prior to or in the initial
stage of an operational deployment (JP 3-34). This survey helps to accomplish three primary goals: the
documentation of initial site conditions, the identification of hazards and risks factors, and the determination
of site selection and layout. The survey is completed using DD Form 2993, Environmental Baseline Survey
Checklist, and DD Form 2994, Environmental Baseline Survey Report.
3-17. Environmental considerations (the spectrum of environmental media, resources, or programs that may
affect the planning and execution of military operations [see JP 3-34]), play an important part in all phases
of an operation, starting with planning, design, and construction. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2
(MCRP 4-11B) for more information about integrating environmental considerations into operations and for
documenting environmental considerations throughout the operational phases of a deployment location.
3-18. An environmental conditions report is a concise summary of events or situations that created a negative
or positive change in environmental conditions at a base camp site. It is completed to track changes that occur
during occupation and is filed with the EBS. Examples of changes that require reporting include a hazardous
material (HAZMAT) spill or leak, the discovery of a cultural or historical resource, the establishment or
movement of a waste management area, and the cleanup of a contaminated area. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 340B.2 (MCRP 4-11B) for more information about environmental conditions reports.
3-19. Environmental site closure surveys are conducted in the final stages of an operational deployment to
determine necessary closure actions and resources and to document the final environmental conditions at a
base camp at the time of transfer/closure. It is completed at least three times, it is used to determine actions
required to meet the negotiated standards for transfer/closure, and it facilitates the development of an
environmental corrective action plan and request for resources. The surveys are completed using DD Form
2995, Environmental Site Closure Survey. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B),
ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13, and TM 3-34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7 for more information about base camp
transitions, transfers, and closures.
3-20. The final DD Form 2995 and the associated environmental closure report are completed before the unit
or base camp commander is released of responsibility for the base camp (see ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13
[MCRP 3-17.7N]). To effectively complete the closure report, it is essential to reference the initial EBS (and
update it if applicable) and the log of periodic environmental conditions reports that have been completed on
the particular site or area. Units record the grid coordinates and take post closure digital photographs of each
waste management site. This information is incorporated into the environmental site closure report and is
archived for future reference. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B) and ATP 3-37.10/MCRP
3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for more information on base camps and environmental considerations for
overseas construction standards. Final governing standards are a comprehensive set of country-specific
substantive environmental provisions, typically technical limitations on effluent, discharges, etc., or a
specific management practice (JP 3-34).
3-21. The Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document specifies criteria and management
practices for environmental compliance at DOD installations at overseas locations. It is designed to protect
human health and the environment and reflects generally accepted environmental standards applicable to

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-3

Chapter 3

DOD installations, facilities, and actions in the United States. It also incorporates requirements of U.S. law
that apply to DOD installations and activities outside the United States and its territories (see JP 3-34). The
OEBGD is published in multiple volumes as DODM 4715.05, Vol. 1–Vol. 5.
3-22. The Contingency Locations Environmental Standards define the environmental standards for
implementation at contingency locations to protect force health, minimize environmental impact, and sustain
mission effectiveness. They include minimum environmental compliance standards and best management
practices, including those that avoid or mitigate adverse effects to recognized cultural, historic, and natural
resources to the maximum extent practicable, given mission requirements (see DODI 4715.22).

ARMY AND MARINE CORPS GENERAL ENGINEERING PLANNING
3-23. Planning and design are separate activities, but they are grouped together because they are
interdependent. Planning pertains to the specific tasks conducted in gathering, generating, and sharing the
necessary information needed for support of mission objectives. The design task is an extension of the
engineer planning task that matches engineering principles and construction means against requirements to
create the necessary engineering and construction details needed for building, operating, maintaining, and
dismantling facilities and infrastructure.
3-24. Planning and design efforts have the greatest impact on improving facility efficiencies, implementing
cost-effective practices, and reducing costs. Planning and design continue during all phases of the operation
and the life cycle of a facility and are integral parts of master planning.
3-25. Planning is the art and science of understanding a situation, envisioning a desired future, and laying
out effective ways of bringing that future about (see ADP 5-0 or MCWP 5-10). In other words, planning is
the means by which the commander visualizes a desired outcome or end state; crafts the means by laying out
effective ways of achieving it; and successfully communicates to subordinates the commander’s vision,
intentions, and decisions, focusing on the results to achieve the desired outcome. Planning helps create a
common vision that results in a plan and orders that synchronize the action of forces in time, space, and
purpose to achieve objectives and accomplish missions.

PLANNING AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
3-26. During planning, commanders and staffs must understand that the types and magnitude of tasks
accomplished vary based on the type, capacity, and resources available to the engineer unit to which the
mission is assigned. The continuous refinement of the mission analysis in the MDMP/MCPP, and the
engineer estimate determines if the proper assets are available to accomplish all tasks. MDMP/MCPP is an
iterative planning methodology that is used to understand the situation and the mission, develop a COA, and
produce an OPLAN or OPORD.

Planning
3-27. Planning follows these general steps:
 Determine operational requirements.
 Conduct reconnaissance and site selection.
 Conduct initial engineering reconnaissance.
 Analyze existing infrastructure.
 Develop, repair, upgrade, or modify plans.
 Determine new construction requirements.
 Determine O&M requirements.
 Coordinate planning with concept or initial designs.
3-28. MDMP/MCPP helps engineers apply thoroughness, clarity, sound judgment, logic, and professional
knowledge to understand situations, develop options to solve problems, and reach decisions. It helps facilitate
collaboration and parallel planning and seeks the optimal solution.

3-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-29. Planning and design are continuous interactive and iterative processes throughout the military
operation and life cycle of the facility or infrastructure. Planning and design can be conceptual, detailed and
highly structured, or less structured. Plans and designs may be initial or final-approved and are often
documented in master plans.
3-30. Planning affects design, and design affects planning. Each may provide information to, and constrain
or restrict the options of, the other. Planning and design are interdependent efforts that are combined to help
facilitate a desired outcome. Effective design hinges on the accuracy and completion of the information
generated during planning, particularly information related to facility and infrastructure requirements,
available resources, construction means, and site location. Automated planning and design tools are available
to assist general engineers in expediting the process.
3-31. Critical information resulting from design that is integrated into planning includes construction
estimates (bill of materials, equipment, personnel, cost, and time) that the commander needs to know in
establishing priorities of support, priorities of effort, timelines associated with movement, the basing of
forces, and the flow of the operation.
3-32. Failure to remain continuously linked and updated with mission planning as it progresses can result in
design solutions that are unsustainable based on the concept of operations and are inadequate in meeting the
commander’s needs. Planners and design engineers develop an integrated collection plan for engineer
reconnaissance to support planning and design.
3-33. Planners may use basic periods of time (such as the two-shift, 20-hour working day) or the days in a
month to prepare estimated labor needs extending over a period of time. However, adverse physical
conditions peculiar to the location must be considered. For example, severe icing conditions during the winter
months, periods of extreme tide range, or severe seasonal winds may have a direct bearing on construction
or rehabilitation work. When heavy seasonal rains, snowfall, icing, seasonal winds of unusual severity,
frequent or seasonal fogs, or exceptionally high or low temperatures are typical to a coastal area, work time
estimates should be modified accordingly to allow for such conditions. When operating in other countries,
planners need to consider holidays, typical workdays, and working hours and their impact on local contractor
work schedules. For example, Muslims observe Ramadan as a month of fasting and do not go to work for a
few weeks.

Design
3-34. The design of structure construction is specified in the authorizing or construction directive. Normally,
engineers build one of two structures—initial or temporary. Initial design life is up to 6 months; temporary
design life is up to 2 years. The use and actual life of the structure may exceed the design life.
3-35. When possible, standard designs are used to save time in design, construction, and maintenance. Using
standard designs and their accompanying bill of materials allows for the advance procurement of construction
materials and equipment. The engineer must fit these designs to the site and adapt them to the existing
conditions. Reconnaissance, construction surveys, soil-bearing tests, test piles and, perhaps, a sieve analysis
of local sands and gravels are prerequisites to the preparation of final design drawings and bill of materials.
3-36. The design of nonstandard structures is usually carried out only if standard designs cannot be adapted
or modified accordingly.

PLANNING AND DESIGN TASKS
3-37. General planning and design engineering planning tasks include—
 Determining requirements.
 Determining constraints.
 Determining standards.
 Developing options.
 Conducting engineering reconnaissance.
 Performing site reconnaissance and site selection.
 Producing site layout.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-5

Chapter 3






Performing economic analysis.
Recommending priorities, to include engineer effort, construction, material allocation, and
contractor support.
Performing master planning.
Performing program and project management.

General Engineering Requirements
3-38. Most requirements are determined during mission planning; some of these requirements may emerge
as operations, while other requirements emerge as the operating environment changes. Construction
requirements come from a variety of sources, to include operational requirements, unit requirements,
engineering principles, status of forces agreements, final governing standards, UFC, standards, rules of
allocation, and the end user.
3-39. General engineering tasks may be performed by a variety of engineer units and Service members, such
as DOD civilians, contractors, specially trained technicians, master planners, professional architects,
professional engineers, or environmental specialists.
3-40. Defining life cycle requirements specifies the capabilities and attributes that the designed facility must
have over its planned life cycle to achieve a specific purpose or function or fulfill a need of the intended
users. Defining requirements must often balance competing requirements, such as commander’s guidance,
best engineering practices, and available funding.
3-41. Contingency construction plans and designs are characterized by the following traits:
 They are rapidly constructed or emplaced.
 They are standardized, modular, and scalable.
 They demonstrate the maximized use of pre-positioned stocks and locally procured materials (sizes,
quality, military specifications).

Constraints
3-42. A constraint dictates an action or inaction, thus restricting how something can be done. Planning and
design are constrained by—
 Base camp standards (facility allowances, construction standards, safety requirements).
 Construction resources availability (labor, equipment, materials, money).
 Terrain and climate conditions.
 Weather effects.
 Available and usable vacant land areas.
 Funding limits.
 Force protection requirements.
 HN agreements.
 Environmental considerations and impacts.
 Operational timelines.
 Civil considerations and impacts.
 Locally available commercial power characteristics.

Standards
3-43. General engineer planners and designers consider all standards established by the CCDRs or higherlevel headquarters for their AOR. Some CCDRs publish guidebooks with rules of allocation and planning or
construction standards. CCDRs often establish standards in orders that may take precedence over guidebooks.
See Army Europe Regulation 420-100, Standards for Base Camps and United States Central Command
Regulation 415-1, Construction and Base Camp Development in the USCENTCOM AOR “The Sand Book”
for theater-specific construction standards.

3-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-44. Construction standards are established by the CCDR (or they default to UFC) and include design,
construction, materials, O&M, quality of life, and environmental considerations. Some are in UFCs, technical
manuals, or other publications or are provided by commanders. Standards help provide effective, efficient,
and sustainable solutions. These are not to be confused with task standards that are used to assess individual
or unit performance.
3-45. Standards can be viewed as a continuum with a wide range of professionally recognized specifications
and expectations, from minimum to highly restrictive. Standards can have steps with different names and
various levels of complexity and technical details. For example, airfield standards are initial or temporary
contingency operations standards. The general engineer must be aware of these standards, whether they are
Service-oriented, state, national, or international in nature.
3-46. The CCDR specifies the facility allowances, construction standards, and safety requirements for the
theater to minimize the engineer effort expended on any given facility while assuring that the facilities are
adequate for health, safety, and mission accomplishment. Typically, the CCDR develops the base camp
construction standards for use in-theater utilizing the guidelines provided in JP 3-34. There can be
construction quality standards and material property standards that must be checked using quality assurance
and quality control activities. See EP 415-1-261 series for information on quality assurance representative
activities. See NTRP 4-04.2.5/TM 3-34.42/AFPAM 32-1020/MCRP 3-17.7F for information on project
quality control plans.
3-47. The engineer must recommend the most feasible solutions to meet each requirement based on
construction guidelines and other planning factors. Standards documents that provide specific construction
examples are in ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N). The commander may also establish
standards in specific OPLANs, OPORDs, and directives. These standards are used as initial guides, provide
planning tools, and may provide priorities for construction within base camps.

General Engineering Options
3-48. Planners and designers use multiple COAs in conceptual or initial plans and designs. These are
developed during initial planning, when much of the needed information may not be available and
assumptions help fill information gaps. This conceptual thinking helps frame the problem and narrow the
range of possible options or COAs. Preliminary estimates are refined and documented in the staff running
estimate.
3-49. As more information becomes available, planning and design may produce a series of more detailed
plans and designs. The MDMP/MCPP is a routine process to develop and evaluate COAs. The engineering
evaluation of options or COAs includes evaluation criteria based on the range of considerations discussed
throughout this manual and is most important to the operation or the solution being evaluated.
3-50. The MDMP/MCPP or another technique may be used to reach a final decision on plans and designs.
The designated approving authority ensures that the detailed plans and designs conform to approved
standards and the master plan and approves them before contracting or construction begins.

Engineer Reconnaissance
3-51. Engineer reconnaissance enables planning and design by providing the information needed to perform
planning and design. Availability and assessment information requirements include infrastructure (en route
to and within the operational area), materials, LOC supportability, local labor, and contractor capabilities.
See ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) for more information.
Site Reconnaissance
3-52. Each potential site should be reconnoitered to select the most economical use of available resources.
General locations and potential sites are determined by tactical requirements and are initially analyzed by
preliminary studies (intelligence or technical), reports, and interviews with locals and by remote
reconnaissance, such as a review of maps, aerial reconnaissance, aerial or space images, and databases. An
initial on-site reconnaissance may be made by the planning headquarters and later confirmed and expanded
by the constructing unit.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-7

Chapter 3

Site Selection
3-53. An engineer reconnaissance should take place before, concurrently, and after land use agreements have
been finalized. The exact site selection is normally made by the constructing unit after conducting a ground
reconnaissance that considers the selection factors for the specific project, such as access routes, trafficability,
soil characteristics, location, quality and quantity of materials, wind patterns, drainage, bivouac sites, and
security. Other factors, such as real estate acquisition and EBS, should also be considered.

Site Layout
3-54. The site layout considers the access, environmental conditions, clearance, drainage, visitor center,
parking area, break area, equipment staging area, equipment park, bivouac sites, borrow sites, quarries,
aggregate supplies, haul routes, material storage areas, facility locations, utilities, and security. A simple site
layout sketch for some projects may evolve to detailed plans in master planning documents. Site preparation
requirements are discussed in TM 5-301 series.

Economic Analysis
3-55. Analysis is done for the projected life cycle cost and potential mission impact of engineering solutions
and helps to provide recommendations to the commander based on this analysis. The economic analysis is
conducted by considering all resources, including labor, materials, equipment, and funds. Economic analysis
may affect planning, design, construction, O&M methods, materials, and procedures.
3-56. A detailed cost estimate is developed to allow a cost comparison of concept designs or to help analyze
the engineering trade-offs made to complete the detailed plans and designs. Economic analysis may need to
be made at specific intervals over the life of a program or project as new information that changes initial
conditions becomes available. For example, the use and upgrade of existing facilities can save resources, but
the risk may be significant due to the impacts of unknown or unforeseen conditions.
3-57. An economic analysis is done to determine how construction and facilities may impact the HN and
local population. This analysis should include the impacts of water usage, increased resources, demands for
utilities/waste disposal, and noise impacts on sensitive populations/agriculture stock. While these impacts
might not be avoided or mitigated, they will impact relations with the local population. Consult a civil affairs
officer for support to develop mitigation or information dissemination plans.

Priorities
3-58. Joint engineer boards recommend priorities and resource allocation to deconflict issues, while the final
resolution is left to the approval of the commander ordering the tasks. Priorities are identified and set at all
levels. The priorities guide the application of limited resources. Priorities may be adjusted many times as
operations progress.

Master Planning
3-59. Master planning is an integrated strategy for the long-range approval, design, construction, and
maintenance of required facilities and infrastructure throughout their life cycle that integrates improvements
for protection, quality of life for residents, and efficiencies and effectiveness at their best possible cost. Proper
master planning enables scalable and sustainable facilities, conserves resources, and prevents wasted
construction. Early master planning facilitates the transition to improved facilities of the right size, with the
right capabilities, and at the right locations as the operation develops. At lower levels, the master planning is
linked to the scheme of base camps and is the responsibility of the commander. A good master plan also
incorporates an EBS. EBSs are an important part of the initial survey, development, and master planning for
base camps.
3-60. Key features of master planning include—
 Producing a documented initial plan and plans for changes of operational requirements, capacity
requirements, the purpose, construction standards, protection requirements, quality of life
standards, resources, contracted support, efficiencies, and effectiveness.
 Seeking to attain cost-effective, scalable, and sustainable solutions.

3-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design




Serving as the long-term blueprint for the implementation of future improvements or changes to
the service life of the base camp.
Starting early to help facilitate the transition to more permanent facilities on the base camp as an
operation develops (see JP 3-34).

Note. See TM 5-803-5/NAVFAC P-960/AFM 88-43 and UFC 2-100-01 for more information on
installation master planning.

Master Planning for Base Camps
3-61. Each base camp with a lifespan of 6 months or more has a master plan that is linked to the higher
headquarters broader master plan. Theater guidance addresses archiving requirements. Master planning is
one of the base camp commander’s most important responsibilities. The base camp commander, supported
by a team, staff, or base camp master planning working group, develops the base camp master plan
collectively with input from supported units. Base camp commanders involve tenant units and organizations
in the process. Tenant units and organizations (military, government, and contractors) provide input into
master planning, to include the necessary designs and details needed to fulfill operational requirements.
3-62. The tasks to conduct master planning are under the construct of base camp operation. The current and
future operational requirements are analyzed, documented, and integrated into the master plan. The level of
detail of the base camp master plan depends on the maturity of the location, the speed at which the operational
need for a base camp develops, and the expected length of stay. Base camp master plans for expeditionary or
initial standard camps may be simply a sketch of the camp, while base camp master plans for temporary or
semipermanent camps include fully engineered construction plans based on complete surveys that integrate
environmental considerations.
3-63. The CCDR establishes the policies and procedures for developing, approving, and implementing
master planning in the JOA. These requirements for master planning are linked to the theater bed-down and
basing strategy and are detailed in subordinate unit plans and orders. At the tactical level, commanders
develop a scheme of base camps (see ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP 3-17.7N]).
3-64. Master planning for base camps generally follows the process used for permanent installations, except
that it has a shortened planning horizon and is often not prepared to the same level of detail (see AR 210-20).
The techniques and procedures of master planning can also be used to develop theater, JOA, or area of
operations bed-down plans. See UFC 2-000-05N and UFC 2-100-01 for additional information on installation
planning. Land use planning is also referred to as site design or site layout. See EP 1105-3-1 for additional
information on base camp development.

TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES
3-65. The Army Facilities Components System (AFCS) is a set of standard facility designs managed and
supported by USACE. The JCMS is an automated military engineering construction planning and execution
support system that delivers AFCS engineering and construction information. Naval facility designs from the
Navy’s Advanced Base Functional Component system were combined into JCMS prior to the elimination of
the Advanced Base Functional Component system.
3-66. There are a variety of other automated systems, tools, and applications that can assist in construction
planning and design. One example is the base engineering survey tool kit. The base engineering survey tool
kit is a stand-alone geographic information system application designed to simplify bed-down planning, such
as planning tent city layouts and configurations. It is a decision support tool that provides the expedient
forward infrastructure that is consistent with the requirements for rapid deployment, minimal logistics, and
required protection. See the Army facilities component system website for more information.

GENERAL ENGINEER STAFF
3-67. The general engineer staff assists the commander by furnishing engineer advice and recommendations
to the commander and other staff officers and by coordinating and supervising specific engineer activities for
which the engineer staff is responsible. The engineer staff assists the commander by performing a variety of

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-9

Chapter 3

functions to synchronize engineer capabilities in the operational area. See FM 3-34, FM 6-0, and MCWP 334 for more information on engineer planning. General engineer staff functions include—
 Advising the commander on engineer capabilities and the best means to integrate and synchronize
engineer efforts to achieve the desired outcome.
 Integrating and synchronizing engineer capabilities between multiple commands and
organizations to achieve the commander’s unity of effort.
 Preparing the engineering portion of plans, the engineer estimate, engineer fragmentary orders,
and warning orders; producing supporting products; and updating the engineer estimate.
 Participating on project approval and acquisition review boards and other boards or working
groups, as necessary.
 Providing real-time reachback linkage to USACE, the Army Engineer School, and supporting
national assets.
 Planning and coordinating engineer support that uses military engineering units and contractors.
 Recommending policies and priorities for construction and real estate acquisition and for Class IV
construction materials.
 Planning and coordinating the procurement and distribution of Class IV construction materials.
 Furnishing advice on the effect of bed-down facilities and base camps on the environment
according to applicable U.S., international, and HN laws and agreements.
 Recommending appropriate construction standards.
 Standardizing infrastructure systems and design approaches.
 Identifying engineering support requirements that exceed funding authorizations and organized
engineer capabilities.
 Furnishing advice on the feasibility, acceptability, and suitability of engineering plans.
 Coordinating with DOD construction agents and other engineer support agencies through
appropriate channels.
 Coordinating the development of environmental and waste management plans.

UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
3-68. USACE provides the engineering standards for construction; guidance on scalability, standardization,
and modularity; expertise on contingency standard designs; and management of the AFCS. They also manage
a strategic reserve of nontactical generators and the Prime Power Program for the Army. USACE serves as
the Army power procurement officer and is responsible for administering the purchase and sale of utilities
services and for the policies, engineering, and rates related to all utility service transactions and contracts.
USACE provides deployable augmentation teams to support commanders.

MILITARY DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
3-69. The MDMP/MCPP is well defined in FM 5-0. Likewise, the planning construct in a joint environment
is well articulated in JP 5-0. Many tasks have unique requirements that must be considered when applying
the MDMP/MCPP to a specific mission. Table 3-1 lists some potentially unique aspects of planning as they
pertain to each MDMP/MCPP step. Although not nearly all-inclusive of the variations required of the
engineer effort, this list demonstrates that general engineering tasks can be complex and resource-intensive
and require extensive and proactive coordination.

ENGINEER RECONNAISSANCE
3-70. Reconnaissance is a mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods,
information about the activities and resources of an enemy or adversary, or to secure data concerning the
meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area (JP 2-0).
3-71. Route classification is a classification assigned to a route using factors of minimum width and worst
route type; least bridge, raft, or culvert military load classification; and obstructions to traffic flow

3-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

(see ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 [MCWP 3-17.4]). Route classification results from collecting detailed
technical information on various components of a designated route, such as the road network, the bridges
along a selected route, and underpasses and/or overpasses. Route classification provides a graphical display
of the load-carrying capacity and the rate-of-travel capacity of the selected route. See
ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) and MCWP 3-34 for additional information.
Table 3-1. General engineering in the MDMP
Steps of the MDMP

General Engineering Considerations

Receipt of the mission

•
•
•
•

Mission analysis

• Determine the availability of construction materials.
• Review the availability of Army, joint, multinational, HN, and contract assets.
• Determine and review established construction standards and base camp master
planning documents.
• Review UFC.
• Review existing geospatial and medical data on potential sites.
• Conduct site reconnaissance (if possible).
• Determine the threat, including environmental and explosive hazards.
• Obtain necessary geologic, hydrologic, and climatic data.
• Determine the level of interagency cooperation required.
• Determine funding sources.

COA development

• Produce different designs that meet the commander’s intent. (Use the JCMS
when the project is of sufficient size and scope.)
• Determine alternate construction locations, methods, means, materials, and
timelines.
• Determine real property and real estate requirements.

COA analysis

• Utilize the critical path method to determine the length of different COAs and the
ability to crash the project.
• Perform an economic analysis.

COA comparison

• Determine the most feasible, acceptable, and suitable methods for completing
tasks.
• Determine and compare the risks of each COA.

COA approval

• Gain approval of the construction management plan, safety plan, security plan,
logistics plan, and environmental plan.

Orders production

• Produce construction directives.
• Provide input to the appropriate plans and orders.
• Ensure that resources are properly allocated.

Rehearsal

• Conduct construction prebriefings.
• Conduct preinspections and construction meetings.
• Synchronize the construction plan with local and adjacent units.

Execution and
assessment

•
•
•
•

A

2023

Review joint orders.
Receive higher headquarters construction directives.
Request geospatial and medical information about the area of operations.
Establish engineer-related boards.

Conduct quality assurance, quality control, and midproject inspections.
Participate on engineer-related boards.
Maintain as built and redline drawings.
Conduct project turnover activities.

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-11

Chapter 3

Table 3-1. General engineering in the military decision-making process (continued)
Legend:
COA
HN
JCMS
MDMP
UFC

course of action
host nation
Joint Construction Management System
military decision-making process
Unified Facilities Criteria

3-72. The five forms of reconnaissance are zone, area, route, force, and special. See ADP 3-90 for additional
information on the forms of reconnaissance.
3-73. Site reconnaissance includes obtaining information to plan security, site layout, and site drainage.
Survey and soil experts should participate in the site reconnaissance. Reconnaissance to support the
construction of a new road may be classified as area or route reconnaissance. See ATP 3-34.81/MCRP
3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) and FM 3-90-1 for more information on reconnaissance.
3-74. When available, an automated route reconnaissance kit can provide engineer units with an automated
reconnaissance package that allows the reconnaissance element to collect and process reconnaissance
information. An overlay is made with attachments that describe all pertinent terrain features. This overlay
forms part of the mobility input to the common operational picture and is maintained by the engineer unit
tasked to perform the reconnaissance. Marine Corps engineer units use the instrument set, reconnaissance
and surveying (common name: ENFIRE) to conduct engineer reconnaissance. See ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 334.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) and MCWP 3-34 for more information on route reconnaissance.
3-75. An air or map reconnaissance includes a general study of the topography, drainage pattern, and
vegetation. Construction problems, camouflage possibilities, and access routes should be identified. A route
reconnaissance plan is developed by selecting the areas to investigate and the questions to be answered from
the information available or, if time is available, to request and support the reconnaissance. An air or map
reconnaissance can be used to eliminate unsuitable sites, but it cannot be relied on for site selection. Digital
imagery greatly enhances the usefulness of this method of reconnaissance.
3-76. While air and map reconnaissance can effectively minimize needed ground reconnaissance, it cannot
replace ground reconnaissance. It is on the ground that most questions must be answered or that most
observations tentatively made from available information are verified.
3-77. There are two basic types of technical reconnaissance (assessments and surveys) discussed in
ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) that may be performed as part of a reconnaissance. Assessments
and surveys include—
 Bridge reconnaissance.
 Gap crossings and choke points.
 Engineer resource assessments.
 Infrastructure reconnaissance.
 Environmental reconnaissance.
 Airfield assessments.
 Seaport assessments.
3-78. Engineer reconnaissance includes two levels of detail: assessment and survey. The comparison and
contrast is as follows:
 Assessment. An assessment, in the context of engineer reconnaissance, is a judgment about
something based on a technical understanding of the situation. Within the range of technical
reconnaissance, an assessment takes less time and technical expertise to perform than a survey but
yields less technical detail than a survey. Reconnaissance elements do not require specialized
technical expertise to perform an assessment. They conduct assessments following the same basic
formats that a survey would use.
 Survey. A survey, in the context of engineer reconnaissance, allows one to look at or consider
something closely, especially to form a technical opinion. Within the range of technical
reconnaissance, a survey requires more time and technical expertise to perform than does an
assessment, but it subsequently produces more technical detail. Specific technical expertise is

3-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

required to conduct a survey. The survey team is normally augmented by forward USACE
personnel assigned to a FEST, other technical specialties (such as medical, civil affairs, other
government agencies, contractors, and HN), and reachback as needed to enhance the survey
quality.
3-79. General engineers working at the operational level conduct reconnaissance primarily to identify
requirements for operational level sustainment/combat service support. Technical reconnaissance capabilities
are typically conducted by a general engineer assessment team or survey team to gather the technical
information required for—
 Maintenance and upgrades of ground LOCs.
 Bridge construction and repair.
 Support of airfields and heliports.
 Support of seaports.
 Support of protection procedures.
 Real estate and real property maintenance activities.
 Procurement and production of construction materials.
 Support of bed-down facilities, base camps, and support areas.
 Power systems.
 Support to petroleum pipelines and storage facilities.
 Water supplies and well drillings.
 Underwater and other specialized construction support requirements.
 Infrastructure surveys.
 Environmental baseline surveys.

ROUTE CLASSIFICATION
3-80. The route classification is assigned to a route using factors of minimum width and worst route type;
least bridge, raft, or culvert military load classification; and obstructions to traffic flow. The military load
classification is a standard system in which a route, bridge, or raft is assigned class number(s) representing
the load it can carry. Vehicles are also assigned number(s) indicating the minimum class of route, bridge, or
raft they are authorized to use. See ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) for more information on
route classification.
3-81. Route reconnaissance is normally a combat engineer task. Route classification is normally a general
engineering task. However, there is no clear dividing line between the technical effort required for the combat
engineering task of classifying a route for combat vehicle traffic and the conduct of a road reconnaissance to
estimate the effort required for the design of an upgrade of an MSR.
3-82. The combat engineering task effectively addresses classification of the route, but it also provides
information that is useful in the general engineer estimate. Similarly, the general engineer estimate effectively
addresses the effort required for an upgrade and provides the information required to properly classify the
route. The general engineer conducts reconnaissance to obtain the information needed to classify and provide
designs for upgrades.
3-83. Route reconnaissance is conducted to evaluate the proposed routes, soil properties, terrain, borrow
sites, quarries, hydrology, and condition of existing roads. The information from route reconnaissance
supports route selection decisions; the design of a new road; or the maintenance, repair, or upgrade of an
existing road needed before a route can carry the proposed traffic.
3-84. Route reconnaissance is classified as hasty or deliberate. The way in which route reconnaissance is
performed depends on the amount of detail required, the time available, the terrain problems encountered,
and the tactical situation.
3-85. Hasty route reconnaissance determines the immediate military trafficability of a specified route. It is
limited to critical terrain data necessary for route classification. The results are part of the mobility input to
the common operational picture. Information concerning the route is updated with additional reports as
required by the situation and/or the commander's guidance.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-13

Chapter 3

3-86. A deliberate route reconnaissance is conducted when sufficient time and qualified technical personnel
are available. Deliberate route reconnaissance is usually conducted when operational requirements are
anticipated to cause heavy, protracted use of the road. It may be the first reconnaissance conducted, or it may
follow the conduct of a hasty route reconnaissance.

INFRASTRUCTURE RECONNAISSANCE (ASSESSMENT AND SURVEY)
3-87. Infrastructure reconnaissance is a multidiscipline variant of reconnaissance to collect detailed technical
information on various categories of the public systems, services, and facilities of a country or region. The
infrastructure reconnaissance develops the situational understanding of the local capability to support the
infrastructure requirements of the local populace or military operations within a specific area. Infrastructure
reconnaissance is accomplished in stages: the infrastructure assessment and the infrastructure survey. See
ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) for additional information on infrastructure reconnaissance.
3-88. Coordinating with the combat engineer units for an on-site visit, an engineer reconnaissance team can
be expected to conduct the initial assessment with available expertise from the supported unit. The initial
assessment provides information to confirm or deny planning assumptions, update running estimates/staff
estimates, determine immediate needs, develop priorities, obtain resources, and refine a plan. As operations
continue, general engineer and other supporting technical support elements provide teams that are qualified
to perform an infrastructure survey. These infrastructure survey teams use the infrastructure assessments
from the engineer reconnaissance teams to prioritize categories and identify those parts of the infrastructure
to be reassessed in more detail.
3-89. Reconnaissance capabilities, when not in direct support of combat engineers, are typically organized
into assessment or survey teams. These task-organized teams have a specific focus for the collection of
technical information and are less likely to be teamed directly with reconnaissance units in the BCT or BLT.
The BLT tends to rely more heavily on joint Service support or other general engineering augmentation to
provide the engineer technical reconnaissance.
3-90. Technical capabilities required to perform a comprehensive reconnaissance include robust support
from joint Service, multiagency, contractor, HN, multinational, and reachback elements. FFE provides a
broad range of expertise that can support reconnaissance by linking in through the engineer element on the
ground to apply a higher degree of technical expertise to the assessment or survey mission. FFE, as it relates
to reconnaissance, is discussed in ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4).

ENVIRONMENTAL RECONNAISSANCE
3-91. Environmental reconnaissance is focused on collecting technical information on existing
environmental conditions and identifying areas that are environmentally sensitive or of relative
environmental concern. The information collected is used to assess the impact of military operations on the
environment and to identify potential environmental impacts on safety and protection.
3-92. Similar to infrastructure reconnaissance, environmental reconnaissance is a multidisciplinary task
conducted by a base team, augmented as necessary with additional expertise. An engineer reconnaissance
team may conduct the initial site assessment and gather information, which assists in determining whether a
parcel of land is acceptable for military use. This assessment is as detailed as the situation permits and is
focused on determining whether the site is healthy for occupancy.

ENVIRONMENTAL BASELINE SURVEY
3-93. The general engineer will likely be responsible for coordinating environmental reconnaissance to
conduct the EBS but should rely on other branches (CBRN, medical, civil affairs, and explosive ordnance
disposal) for assistance in those areas requiring specialized expertise.
3-94. If the tactical situation permits, commanders conduct an EBS before occupying a site. An EBS
documents the original environmental condition of the land. An EBS is required if an area is to be occupied
by U.S. forces for more than 30 days. To provide financial protection to the United States and its allies against
unjust claims and charges for using, renting, or leasing real property, a completed EBS should be included
(regardless of the duration).

3-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-95. An EBS identifies environmental hazards and issues that could impact area suitability for occupation
by U.S. forces. This document is also critical during base cleanup and closure, when the U.S. military
prepares to return the land back to the HN in its original condition. An EBS is also conducted to protect the
U.S. government from future claims or liability.
3-96. Ideally, the EBS is conducted in conjunction with an OESHA since the two documents support each
other. An OESHA is conducted by a medical base team augmented with other specialties (engineer, CBRN,
or others).
3-97. An OESHA is conducted to determine whether environmental contaminants from current or prior land
use, disease vectors, or other environmental health conditions that could pose health risks to deployed
personnel exist at the deployment sites. Additionally, an OESHA identifies industrial facilities and
commodities near the site that could, if damaged or destroyed, release contaminants harmful to personnel.
While the EBS is generally more visual and engineer-related, the OESHA is more analytical (which includes
a greater variety and detail of sampling), with a greater focus on health hazards.
Note. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B) for more information on conducting an
EBS before the establishment of a base camp.

UNCERTAINTY
3-98. Commanders and staffs must have tolerance for the uncertainties (beyond their span of control)
associated with planning solutions, specifically base camps and bed-down facilities, and be prepared to
handle the inherent ambiguities and complexities through extensive planning and continuous coordination
that effectively mitigate risk. Two of the most demanding challenges are as follows:
 Projected population. Projected population is accurately estimating the intended base camp
population (personnel, vehicles, and equipment that will be on the base camp or facility at any one
time). This can be difficult due to fluid changes in assigned units, transient personnel, contractors,
and HN personnel.
 Projected service lifespan. Projected service lifespan is accurately determining the expected
service life-span of the base camp or facility based on mission duration. The size and composition
of the deployed force may change between planning and construction and will almost certainly
change over the lifespan of a base camp or facility. In addition, the actual mission support timeline
may also change over time and require adjustment.
3-99. These uncertainties force planners to plan and seek design solutions based on valid assumptions which,
if proven false, can result in inadequate facilities and infrastructure or wasted construction that cannot support
the mission. With this in mind, engineers strive for planning and designing scalable solutions that assist in
mitigating the effects of uncertainty.

GENERAL ENGINEERING DESIGN
3-100. Most design is performed by trained architects and engineers of many disciplines, such as civil,
architectural, geotechnical, structural, electrical, and environmental. Some engineers may be professionally
registered, and others may be trained to perform simpler designs. Engineer designs for construction in
contingency locations, up to the semipermanent duration of construction, do not require a professional
engineer to certify the design. Engineer construction in enduring locations, built to semipermanent and
permanent construction durations, are usually designed by U.S.-licensed architects and engineers. The Army
has designated some duty positions that require a professional architect, a professional engineer, or an
environmental engineer certification or registration.
3-101. Military engineers are trained to perform design by several methods: using basic engineering
principles, equations, and design procedures; using step-by-step procedures with tables and charts; and using
computer- or application-aided design. Each method may be needed to site-adapt standard facility designs.
All methods of design require engineering judgment, the application of engineering principles, mathematical
problem solving, and engineering knowledge.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-15

Chapter 3

DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
3-102. Key design considerations include—
 Operational requirements.
 Resource constraints.
 Basing strategies.
 Base camp schemes.
 Master plans.
 Design criteria.
 Standards.
 Design life expectancies.
 Economic analysis.
 Available materials.
 Available units.
 Intended purposes or functions.
3-103. Design produces efficient and effective solutions. Ideally, if a new design is necessary, it should be
simple and flexible and must reflect available materials and the level of training of construction personnel
(see TM 3-34.51/MCRP 3-40D.15).
3-104. During design, engineering principles; construction means; standards; site conditions; and adaptable,
scalable designs are matched against client facility and infrastructure requirements. The end result is the
production of detailed site designs, plans, drawings, specifications, and special instructions needed for
constructing facilities and infrastructure that meet requirements. Some higher headquarters designs may be
conceptual, preliminary, detailed, or final-approved designs. Some designs cannot be finalized until the
construction unit completes the engineering reconnaissance to obtain on-site information. Other standard or
detailed designs may be site-adapted with or without higher headquarters approval.

Design Agency Process
3-105. The design agency may be a military headquarters engineer staff, a constructing unit, a service
construction agent (USACE or NAVFAC), or a contracted architect or design firm. Design begins during
initial project planning. DD Form 1391 (FY____Military Construction Project Data) is a programming tool
used to request funding and justify a user need. The DD Form 1391 format enables the preparing official to
systematically provide the data required for design, proper review, and validation of the project. Refer to
AR 420–1, FC 1-300-09N, OPNAVINST 11010.20H, and UFC 1-300-08 for information on preparing
DD Form 1391, project programming development, and design procedures.
Note. Not all design work is based on DD Form 1391. Other projects may also be designed based
on construction directives from higher headquarters, such as an OPORD to an engineer unit
designated as the construction agent for a design-build project. The design period may begin
before, during, or after force deployment.

Architect and Engineer Roles
3-106. The design architect or engineer is professionally liable for any failure in the functionality and safety
of the design. Therefore, the architect and engineer have a vested and shared interest in ensuring that the
project is correctly built according to plans and specifications. The contracting office or responsible design
headquarters engineer organization coordinates with the architect or engineer to produce the plans and
specifications and to design the change directives required to accommodate the differing site conditions,
client-requested changes to the design, or problems encountered during construction.
3-107. The architect or engineer produces a set of plans and specifications (to include a submittal register
for materials, equipment, and systems requiring approval before use) based on the concepts and requirements
that define and meet the needs of the client. The architect and engineer may provide design and engineering
assistance and oversight during military or contracted construction.

3-16

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

Site-Adapted Designs
3-108. Site-adapted designs are generally approved by the headquarters that completed the concept designs.
The constructing unit may possess the necessary engineering expertise (or obtain it through reachback),
automated design tools, access to standard designs, and network capability to share, archive, and print
construction documents.
3-109. Planners and the constructing unit assess the progress and compare forecasted outcomes with actual
events to determine overall effectiveness. Based on this assessment, adjustments are made, or new options
are developed to achieve the desired results. Lessons learned and recommended improvements to standard
designs and theater adaptations are captured to facilitate design modifications, and facility records and asbuilt designs are updated and maintained to facilitate future construction and transfer or closure.
3-110. One of the possible options for base camp and bed-down facility designs of new facilities should be
the use of standard AFCS designs. As plans are finalized, the standard designs are site-adapted accordingly.
If some or all existing facilities are used, the information from the AFCS can be used as planning factors to
help estimate and assess facility requirements and design upgrades. Standard facility designs should be
modular, scalable, sustainable, and energy efficient. The AFCS and Service doctrinal design and construction
technical publications should provide metric designs and standards that can be used in regions that use the
metric system.
3-111. When possible, the construction unit should be included in the design effort. Since the construction
unit may not yet be identified during the initial design effort, an engineer with construction experience,
knowledge of construction techniques, and unit capabilities should be part of the design team. The
construction unit or its immediate higher headquarters should be included in the detailed design process if
they are not directly responsible for it.

Drainage System Designs
3-112. The drainage system for each facility or project site should be planned and designed before
occupying the site or starting construction. The planning and design of drainage systems are conducted by
the higher headquarters design engineers and the constructing unit. The drainage system includes the overall
drainage plan, area drainage structures, individual facility drainage structures, and temporary construction
drainage.
3-113. Drainage system design includes construction drainage, a sedimentation control plan, and permanent
drainage structures. The three basic procedures in drainage system design are—
 Determining the area that is contributing runoff.
 Estimating the quantity of runoff.
 Designing the drainage structure for maximum runoff.
3-114. In permanent, peacetime construction, underground drains are often used because the efficient use
of space, environmental considerations, and safety practices does not permit large, open ditches, particularly
for the disposal of collected runoff. In contrast, designs for road drainage in contingency operations use
surface ditching almost exclusively because of limited pipe supplies and the absence of storm sewer systems
to collect runoff. Design the drainage system to remove surface water effectively from operating areas, to
intercept and dispose of runoff from adjoining areas, to intercept and remove runoff expected due to the
selected design storm, and to minimize the effects of exceptionally adverse weather conditions.
3-115. The siting of base camps and individual facilities can have major effects on required drainage
structures and their associated cost in terms of materials and construction effort. Inadequate drainage is the
most common cause of road and airfield failure. Data on local drainage conditions for initial planning may
be obtained from maps and aerial reconnaissance and can then be confirmed with on-site ground
reconnaissance and information from local inhabitants. See TM 3-34.48-1 for a discussion on drainage
system designs.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-17

Chapter 3

DESIGN VARIABLES
3-116. Some of the primary variables affecting design that must be resolved through planning and
reconnaissance include—
 The availability of suitable existing facilities and infrastructure.
 The availability of suitable construction materials and means for performing construction (skilled
labor and special equipment provided by troops or contractors).
 Facility allowances, construction standards, and safety requirements.
 The prescribed level of capabilities and linkages to other similar facilities.
 Terrain and weather effects at selected facility locations.
 Protection and security requirements (based on threat and vulnerability assessments).
 Civil and environmental considerations.
 Cost and time constraints.
 Governing U.S. regulations and policies and HN laws and customs.
 Weather data reports on rainfall and snowfall patterns.

PROTECTION CONSIDERATIONS
3-117. Facilities should be designed to resist attack through selecting proper materials, limiting the number
of doors and windows, and orientating openings to minimize overall blast radius exposure. Minimum
contingency requirements normally are hardened walls and roofs that protect occupants and that are sized to
adequately accommodate personnel.
3-118. Overhead blast protection designs can be incorporated into contingency construction facilities and
are available as a retrofit for existing structures (such as low-emissivity glass [commonly referred to as
e-glass]). The most common design is a layered structure, with one layer used to detonate incoming munitions
and a second layer used to absorb the blast concussion and shrapnel.
3-119. The JCMS incorporates limited protection requirements into its designs. Protection designs fall into
two main categories: isolation and hardening. For facility protection, planners consider using facility
hardening, dispersion, standoff, and security. Some examples are as follows:
 For facilities that must be isolated, most designs need to be augmented. One means is the use of
soil-filled containers to create a system of barriers that surround and separate the facility.
 The hardening of facilities is desirable when terrain constricts dispersion and the threat analysis
indicates that the facilities are likely possible targets for enemy weapons. Concrete masonry walls
can be hardened with reinforced concrete up to the blast height. The walls can also be reinforced
with blast mitigation products as outlined in GTA 90-01-011. Hardening techniques are discussed
in ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C.
 Widely dispersing facilities (where terrain conditions permit) should be established to prevent the
enemy from inflicting massive damage in a single strike; however, precautions must be made to
ensure that operations are not unduly hampered by ill-planned dispersion schemes.
 Standoff distances that equate actual distances from force protection barriers, such as fences, to
the closest facility should also be considered. Avoid building facilities close to fences.
3-120. The force protection of a facility or installation may be accomplished by active and passive security
measures, including facility hardening and dispersion. See ADP 3-37 and ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C for
more information on protection and survivability. The enemy situation must be evaluated as carefully and
thoroughly as possible. Threats to supply and maintenance facilities may include conventional and
nonconventional ground forces, CBRN threats, and attacks delivered by direct and indirect systems. The
remote delivery of mines should also be considered.
3-121. Insurgent activities may pose a threat to logistics assets. In determining how to best protect a facility
against interdictory attacks, the commander must take into account the surrounding terrain, local weather and
climate conditions, the availability of Class IV and V materials to support protective measures, rules of
engagement/rules for the use of force and the current enemy situation.

3-18

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-122. Force protection primarily affects base camp development (site selection, layout, design, and
construction), including base camp security and defense, antiterrorism measures, survivability, facilities for
force health protection, safety techniques (including friendly fire avoidance), physical security systems and,
if assigned the task, detainee, and resettlement facilities. The development of the base camp layout ensures
the adequate protection of personnel and assets.
3-123. The key to the effective development of base camp protection is a working partnership between
those personnel focused on antiterrorism and other protection issues and the site engineers. This partnership
facilitates the development of integrated physical security protective measures and security procedures that
are consistent with base camp design.
3-124. The early identification of protection requirements is essential to base camp planning efforts.
Addressing the collective protection concerns early helps to ensure that site location and layout are
compatible with security and mission accomplishment.
Notes.
1. See ADP 3-37, AFCS program guidelines, ATP 3-37.2, ATP 3-39.32, ATP 3-37.34/MCTP
3-34C, and GTA 90-01-011 for additional information on determining threats, assessing
vulnerabilities, and integrating antiterrorism and protection measures within operations.
2. See UFC 4-010-01 for additional information on antiterrorism standards.
3. See UFC 4-010-03, UFC 4-010-05, UFC 4-020-01, UFC 4-020-03FA (FOUO), UFC 4-021-01,
UFC 4-021-02, UFC 4-022-01, UFC 4-022-02, UFC 4-023-03, UFC 4-023-07, UFC 4-024-01,
and UFC 4-025-01 for additional information on facility force protection planning, design, and
construction.
4. See UFC 1-201-01 for additional information on the criteria for life safety- and habitabilityrelated design requirements for nonpermanent facilities in support of military operations.

Fire Protection and Fire Prevention
3-125. An effective fire protection plan is critical to the safety of personnel, facilities, and equipment.
Adequate fire protection must be included in the design of base camps. This includes proper tent and building
spacing, means of egress, wiring standards, use of flame-retardant materials, firefighting vehicle access,
availability of water supply, and fire protection and HAZMAT spill response equipment. See
TM 3-34.30 and UFC 3-600-01 for more information on firefighting.
3-126. The Army engineer firefighting unit is discussed in TM 3-34.30. Engineer firefighting units are
considered specialized units. They specialize in fire prevention, rescue, and firefighting to protect personnel,
assets, and installations. They can assist in fire inspections and fire prevention training and can advise the
commander on fire hazards. They are typically assigned to installations, seaports, and airfields.
3-127. Temporary structures generally use combustible materials. Austere environments often lack
adequate water and maintenance resources to support modern fire suppression systems. Fire can result in the
rapid loss of facilities and can spread quickly to other structures. Poor construction standards, flammable
materials, and human error can make facilities very susceptible to fire damage and the catastrophic loss of
life or materials. TM 3-34.30 gives specific guidance for firefighting and rescue procedures. This technical
manual prescribes the assignment of firefighting assets based on the supported population or facility area.
For example, airfields, troop populations of 5,000 to 10,000 persons, or storage areas containing more than
100,000 square feet of storage space are each allocated at least one fire pumper truck team.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-19

Chapter 3

3-128. The commander has full responsibility for implementing fire prevention and protection. All Army,
command, and local fire regulations must be enforced. Programs of inspection must be established, self-help
and firefighting responsibilities identified, and equipment assigned. AR 420-1 provides further information
about fire prevention and protection.
3-129. Fire protection measures available to the commander include—
 Enforcing the rule.
 Setting up alarm and notification procedures.
 Procuring and making available extinguishers and other firefighting equipment.
 Training personnel in fire prevention and protection measures.
 Locating water tanks and reservoirs in key centralized areas to properly support firefighting
activities.
 Ensuring that installation or base camp facilities allow access for firefighting personnel and their
vehicles to move about freely to perform their duties unimpeded.
3-130. An additional requirement for the assets that provide fire protection is responding to HAZMAT
spills. This support is an important part of environmental considerations that may have a direct effect on force
health protection. See UFC 3-601-02 for additional information on dry chemical suppression systems.

Safety
3-131. Designers work together with safety specialists to mitigate hazards that are developed as part of risk
management, which is initiated during planning and continues throughout the base camp life cycle.
3-132. The design influences safety considerations during construction. Some designs and the associated
construction methods may be more difficult, especially when unskilled labor is used, and inherently more
dangerous. Designers must ensure that the complexity of designs is reasonable and justifiable based on the
construction means available and that the means for enforcing safety and mitigating risks during construction
is achievable. HN laborers and contractors may not adhere to expected construction and safety standards.
3-133. Any specifications in component configurations, materials, and construction tasks that are essential
for achieving the quality and safety features of the design must be clearly articulated and communicated to
the constructing unit and become part of the overall quality assurance or quality control plan. Any incorrect
design decisions, changes desired by the facility user, or material substitutions based on availability may
require the reevaluation of designs. When possible, include firefighters in planning and design.
3-134. One of the possible options for the base camp and bed-down facility design of new facilities should
be the use of standard AFCS designs. As plans are finalized, the standard designs are site-adapted
accordingly. If existing facilities are used, information from the AFCS can be used as planning factors to
help estimate and assess facility requirements and design upgrades. Standard facility designs should be
modular, scalable, sustainable, and energy efficient. The AFCS converts U.S. standard designs to metric
designs.
3-135. When possible, the construction unit should be included in the design effort. Since the construction
unit may not yet be identified during the initial design effort, an engineer with construction experience,
knowledge of construction techniques, and unit capabilities should be part of the design team. The
construction unit or its immediate higher headquarters should be included in the detailed design process if
they are not directly responsible for it.

Structural Integrity
3-136. The safety risks from structural collapse increase when existing buildings are used for a new purpose
with greater loads or when damaged. Although contingency construction standards are generally conservative
to address a wide range of loads in different environments, the structural integrity and conditions of an
existing structure can vary greatly based on HN construction standards, the quality of construction, and the
effects of battle damage. Existing structures may have little resistance to seismic activity, abnormal weather,
or impact loads.

3-20

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-137. The general engineer or other qualified engineer representative must oversee the allowable use of
existing structures. A proper structural analysis and materials evaluation must be completed before protection
measures are affixed to an existing structure since they may increase the load-bearing structural capacity.
3-138. A qualified engineer oversees the repair, modification, or expansion of an existing building to ensure
that it conforms to established policies and standards. Construction variances with structural components that
deviate from the Service standards require a structural assessment and compliance with UFC. Material
substitutions for structural members with standard designs require a structural assessment and compliance
with UFC. This necessitates completing a structural assessment and repair before buildings can be occupied.

GENERAL ENGINEERING DESIGN PROCESS
3-139. JCMS is the primary design platform employed by military engineers. This specific design program
is best suited for use in deployed locations, or a designer may be more experienced using another specific
design program. Design is often a collaborative and interactive process with planners, engineers, and actual
or potential users. A typical design process generally consists of the following steps:
 Define life cycle requirements.
 Identify resources and constraints.
 Develop and conceptualize options.
 Evaluate options.
 Make a decision.
 Implement, assess, and adjust as necessary.

ENGINEER WORK LINE
3-140. An engineer work line is a coordinated boundary or phase line used to compartmentalize an area of
operations to indicate where specific engineer units have primary responsibility for the engineer effort (FM
3-34). It may be used at the division level to discriminate between an area of operations supported by division
engineer assets and an area of operations supported by direct support or general support corps engineer units.
The engineer work line may also be used as a boundary between engineer organizations, but this should not
be its primary purpose. It may or may not follow maneuver unit boundaries.
3-141. Traditionally, the engineer work line is used at the division level to delineate between engineer
capabilities assigned to the division level and higher-echelon engineer units. It also serves as a visualization
tool for the engineer staff officer. Forward of the engineer work line, efforts are focused on combat
engineering functions and tasks. Most resource-intensive construction tasks are performed behind the
engineer work line.
3-142. The use of the engineer work line as a visualization tool and graphic control measure (see
figure 3-1, page 3-22) is effective when assigning responsibility and coordinating actions on the contiguous
battlefield. This allows engineer units (who are organic and augment the division) to focus on providing
robust engineering support forward of the engineer work line. To the rear of the engineer work line,
uncommitted EAB engineer units in a direct support or general support role to the division can focus primarily
on executing tasks that sustain the division. Such tasks may include LOC upgrade and repair, facilities
construction, field landing strip repair, LOC bridging, and other sustainment/combat service support of the
force.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-21

Chapter 3

Legend:
AA
EWL

assembly area
engineer work line

Figure 3-1. Division engineer work line in contiguous operations
3-143. Figure 3-2 represents an example of multiple engineer work lines to depict responsibilities between
engineers (who are organic and augment division) and BCT and EAB engineer units. In this case, engineers
(who are organic and who augment BCTs) focus primarily on engineering tasks inside engineer work lines
Dog, Cat, and Lion, while EAB engineers are responsible for tasks throughout the remainder of the division
area of operations, including the intermediate staging bases. During the offense and defense, the focus shifts
to providing support to the BCTs and providing combat engineering support to combat maneuver forces.
However, during stability operations or DSCA, tasks are executed with EAB engineers operating throughout
the area of operations.

Legend:
AO
EWL
ISB
MSR

area of operations
engineer work line
intermediate staging base
main supply route

Figure 3-2. Division engineer work line in noncontiguous operations

3-22

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-144. At corps, theater, or joint levels, the engineer staff officer for that echelon may establish a corps
engineer work line or theater engineer work line in much the same manner as the division work line. The
theater engineer staff officer augments subordinate echelons by assuming responsibility for specific support,
on a task basis, forward to the appropriate engineer work line, thus releasing the direct support/general
support engineer units to engage in activities as far forward as possible.
3-145. The engineer staff officer who assigns the engineer work line to a particular sector is responsible for
planning and advising the commander when the engineer work line shifts. This occurs after a careful analysis
of the ongoing operation, available engineer capabilities, and future requirements. Early in a contingency, it
may be very difficult for the theater engineer staff officer to shift the theater engineer work line out of the
theater staging base because of shortages in the general engineering capacity.

UNIFIED FACILITIES CRITERIA
3-146. The UFC provide facility planning, design, construction, operations and maintenance,
sustainment/combat service support, restoration, and modernization criteria that apply to all DOD and
Service components. The Army Facilities Standardization Program is a formal process for developing Army
standards and standard designs. Standard design includes the drawings and specifications developed to ensure
the application of sound engineering principles in the design process.
3-147. The Army Facilities Standardization Committee has final approving authority for all UFC that affect
Army standards. Army standards are listed in a table of mandatory criteria containing the functional
requirements necessary to complete military missions (present and future). These Army standards are
coordinated with Army functional proponents and are approved by the HQDA Deputy Chief of Staff (G-9)
in coordination with the Army Facilities Standardization Committee.
3-148. UFCs are used for all Service projects and work for other customers, where appropriate. Individual
UFCs are developed by a single-disciplined working group and are published after careful coordination. UFC
are jointly developed and managed by USACE, NAVFAC, and the Air Force Civil Engineer Center.
3-149. Although UFC are written with semipermanent and permanent standards in mind, planners who are
executing under initial, temporary, and semipermanent construction standards find them useful. Topics
include pavement structure design, water supply systems, military airfields, concrete design and repair,
plumbing, electrical systems, and many others.
3-150. The UFC system provides planning, design, construction, operations, and maintenance criteria and
applies to all Service commands having military construction responsibilities. UFC are living documents and
are periodically reviewed, updated, and made available to users to provide technical criteria for military
construction. UFC are only published in electronic media form from—
 The Whole Building Design Guide website.
 The NAVFAC Engineering Criteria and Programs Office website.

FIELD FORCE ENGINEERING
3-151. The overarching concept of the FFE program is discussed in FM 3-34. It is the application of Army
Engineer Regiment capabilities across the competition continuum facilitated by forward presence and
reachback. FFE works to provide seamless specialized support to military operations and to provide military
support to the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency in federal
military support to civilian authority response to catastrophic civil disasters. See MCTP 3-34D for a
description of the Navy equivalent FFE capabilities associated with NAVFAC.
3-152. FFE fuses the capabilities resident in the USACE, Army Engineer School, theater engineer
command, public works, and civilian contractors. It recognizes the critical need for early, integrated engineer
participation in planning and optimizing engineer capabilities for mission analysis, development, and
accomplishment.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-23

Chapter 3

FORWARD-PRESENCE CAPABILITY
3-153. FFE has the ability to form scalable modular teams that are capable of deploying into theater on
short notice to provide engineering support to the CCDR and fill gaps in capabilities and expertise. Engineer
planners must carefully analyze the mission to determine the required level of forward-presence support and
tailor its requests. Because these teams can be tailored, specificity of requests in terms of the mission type is
critical. To facilitate the engineer planning effort, USACE maintains established liaison officer planners at
the combatant command and ASCC/MCCC levels.
3-154. Requests for USACE support should be channeled through the USACE liaison officer at the
combatant command or ASCC/MCCC echelons. The USACE assistant chief of staff, operations (G-3)
respond to requests for engineer support if coordination through a liaison officer is not possible.

FIELD FORCE TEAMS
3-155. FFE teams include the following:
 FEST (advance).
 FEST (main).
 Contingency real estate support team.

REACHBACK CAPABILITIES
3-156. Engineers have a variety of reachback capabilities at their disposal. These capabilities include the—
 Army Engineer School.
 Marine Corps Engineer School.
 Base development team.
 UROC.
 Reachback equipment.

United States Army Engineer School
3-157. The Army Engineer School plays a key role in training new generations of Soldiers in bridging
construction, reviewing current practices, and developing new bridge training. The Army Engineer School
can provide a reachback capacity to the engineer in the field by providing staff expertise. It also supports
MSCoE in developing new bridging systems and gap-reduction capabilities. See FM 3-34 for additional
information on the role of the Army Engineer School.
3-158. The Directorate of Environmental Integration ensures that the development and implementation of
environmental training and doctrine programs and products that support military training and readiness
operations are consistent with regulatory requirements and Army environmental policies (see AR 200-1).
The Directorate of Environmental Integration can provide on-demand training and reachback support to unit
environmental officers.

United States Marine Corps Engineer School
3-159. The Marine Corps Engineer School reachback capability is under development. See the Marine
Corps Engineer School Training and Education Command website for more information.
MCWP 3-34 provides information about reachback resources for distributed maritime operations.

Base Development Team
3-160. The base development team provides installation-level base development planning and facilities
design expertise for intermediate staging bases, base camps, bases, and detainee or resettlement camps. It
integrates environmental aspects into the design of these facilities. This 10-person, nondeployable
organization is located in various USACE engineer districts and draws support from UROC and other
USACE centers of expertise.

3-24

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Planning and Design

3-161. The base development team is capable of completing 30 percent of the design of a major base camp
within three days. It uses the inherent capabilities of the AFCS and JCMS to prepare designs and passes them
to forward presence organizations via the TeleEngineering Operations Center or the Secret Internet Protocol
Router Network. The base development team is prepared to provide support for civil disaster response, as
needed.

United States Army Corps of Engineers Reachback Operations Center
3-162. The UROC facilitates reachback for deployed troops to link up with subject matter expertise
(professional engineers, scientists, and technicians; private industry; academia; and databases) that is not
resident in the theater or area of operations. Troops are able to obtain a detailed analysis of complex problems
that would be difficult to achieve with limited expertise or computational capabilities available in the field.
3-163. UROC staff members respond to incoming information requests and provide detailed analysis, such
as flooding potential due to dam breaches, load-carrying capabilities of bridges, field fortifications and
protection, the evaluation of transportation networks, and water resource data. It has access to the USACE
Transportation System Center, which includes subject matter experts on airfields, roadways, and railroads.
3-164. The UROC serves as the focal point for videoconferences. It has a classified bridge with ports for
videoconferences and an unclassified bridge with additional user ports. For more information, see the
USACE Reachback Operations Center website.

Reachback Equipment
3-165. USACE and other engineer organizations distribute a variety of systems for facilitating reachback
for technical engineering support for problems requiring rapid solutions. Reachback equipment includes the
TeleEngineering Communication Equipment, geospatial assessment tool, automated route reconnaissance
kit, environmental toolkit for expeditionary operations, and TeleEngineering Toolkit software.
TeleEngineering Communication Equipment
3-166. TeleEngineering Communication Equipment provides a secure and nonsecure communications link
between deployed USACE personnel, their headquarters, engineer units, and subject matter experts to meet
mission objectives. TeleEngineering Communication Equipment provides reachback capability using cutting
edge, off-the-shelf communications equipment with added encryption. Videoconferences and data transfers
can be conducted from remote sites where other means of communication are nonexistent or unavailable.
3-167. TeleEngineering Communication Equipment comes with its own satellite links and, therefore, does
not use bandwidth from units deployed in-theater. Although originally designed for use by USACE
organizations, TeleEngineering Communication Equipment sets have been fielded to a number of tactical
units to enhance their reachback capability.
Geospatial Assessment Tool
3-168. The geospatial assessment tool is a suite of applications that allows field data collection. A desktop
application serves as a conduit to synchronize data from the field to the desktop and then to an online data
repository and geographic information mapping system. Such information can include the assessment of
critical infrastructure, real estate environmental condition reports, access control points, and weather
information.
Automated Route Reconnaissance Kit
3-169. The automated route reconnaissance kit is an adaptable, easy-to-use reconnaissance package that
allows military units and civilian agencies to rapidly collect, process, and distribute route reconnaissance
information.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

3-25

Chapter 3

TeleEngineering Toolkit Software
3-170. The TeleEngineering Toolkit software is a USACE-supported software product that provides a
valuable analysis tool for a graphic display of engineer products, analysis, and digital data. By annotating an
area of interest, a small reference file can be sent back to subject matter experts to provide information
requests for a variety of information requests, such as a cross-country mobility analysis, a flood analysis, and
vegetation information.
3-171. The response is sent back from the mission support element and is graphically displayed on the
TeleEngineering Toolkit software system. It also works with the automated route reconnaissance kit using a
global positioning system, a video camera, and a 3-D accelerometer to provide a mounted vehicle or airborne
automated reconnaissance capability.

3-26

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Chapter 4

Construction
Construction is the art or process of building or assembling structures such as base
camps, bed-down facilities, or other infrastructure. It consists of a wide range of
activities, methods, and techniques used to combine individual parts and for
marshaling resources together to create a greater whole. Construction life cycle refers
to the means and methods for constructing, modifying, upgrading, and deconstructing
base camps and bed-down facilities that are devised through planning and design.
Construction is performed by military units and CAAF and non-CAAF. Facilities and
infrastructure are built using various methods that are evaluated and determined during
planning and design. Existing facilities and infrastructure are used to the fullest extent
to minimize the overall construction effort and reduce the logistics footprint. The
military maximizes the use of modular systems and prefabricated or pre-engineered
components, which facilitates rapid development, achieves scalability, and reduces the
time required for closing facilities that are no longer needed. This chapter describes
general construction planning and estimating, project management, methods of
construction, and procurement and production of construction materials and provides
an overview of construction techniques.

PLANS AND ESTIMATES
4-1. Construction planning and estimating begin at each level as early as possible to determine
requirements, timelines, and COAs for construction methods, materials, construction techniques, and
resulting unit requirements. There are two levels of construction planning: preliminary planning performed
by service construction agents and engineer unit higher headquarters and detailed planning performed by the
constructing engineer unit. Project estimates support construction project planning.
4-2. Each headquarters level verifies the planning and estimating facts, assumptions, and details from the
higher level and develops additional information for subordinate staffs and units. The constructing unit
produces the detailed construction plan. The detailed construction plan includes the site layout, safety, and
jobsite security. Detailed estimates include material, equipment, and labor estimates.
4-3. NTRP 4-04.2.3/TM 3-34.41/MCRP 3-40D.12 provides all Services standard procedures, information,
and data on the construction project estimating of projects built by military engineer units. Commercially
available estimating tools and books are also available. Planners, designers, and project managers use the
JCMS as a source for man-day estimates. JCMS supports engineer planners with facilities design information
for outside of the United States or theater operation mission requirements. See the USACE website for
additional information on JCMS.
4-4. Engineers should examine subordinate doctrinal TMs for more detailed discussion on planning and
estimating. Appendix B provides engineer construction planning factors for base camps. Constructing unit
standard operating procedures based on the unit equipment; level of training; and site-specific, demonstrated
unit production rate may provide the best detailed estimates. For estimating quantities, use
NTRP 4-04.2.3/TM 3-34.41/AFPAM 32-1000/MCRP 3-17.7M. Planning factors are found in doctrinal
publications or unit standard operating procedures based on site-specific conditions and experience.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-1

Chapter 4

JOINT CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
4-5. The JCMS is a personal computer-based, automated military construction planning system with a
digital design, management, database, and reporting system that is used by military engineers for contingency
construction activities in an operational area. It provides military planners, logisticians, and engineers the
information necessary to plan, design, and manage theater construction projects where austere, temporary
facilities are required. JCMS is the official tool for base camp development, planning, and design, including
naval facilities and air bases.
4-6. The primary purpose of the JCMS is to support engineer planners with facilities design information
for use outside of the United States to meet mission requirements. JCMS is the delivery vehicle of the AFCS
program. The proponent agency of AFCS is the Army Office of the Chief of Engineers. Refer to the JCMS
website for additional information.
4-7. JCMS is the approved method for distributing AFCS designs and related information. The AFCS
provides logistics and engineering data that is organized, coded, and published to assist engineer planners
and designers in executing construction missions in contingency environments. See the UROC REDi website
for information on how to use the AFCS system.
4-8. Key features of JCMS include—
 Planning. Users can develop facility and installation plans to satisfy mission construction
requirements using JCMS computer routines. The system determines personnel and material
requirements and the cost, weight, and volume of materials needed for a specific project.
 Design. Users can prepare site-specific new design or construction drawings, use existing AFCS
designs within the JCMS, modify the drawings as required, and adapt mission requirements using
the JCMS computer-aided design and drafting capability. The system provides standard plans for
base camp developments, utilities, and airfields.
 Management. Users can set up and manage construction progress and resource allocation and
utilization throughout the construction time frame.
 Reporting and communication. The JCMS develops and transmits the necessary reports following
the engineer chain of command to facilitate the decision-making process using intercomputer
electronic and direct entry.

ARMY FACILITIES COMPONENT SYSTEM
4-9. AFCS is the primary tool that provides engineers the information needed to plan, design, and manage
theater construction projects where austere, temporary facilities are required. AFCS is discussed further in
the TM 5-301 series. AFCS and the TM 5-301 series provide a set of standard facility designs managed and
supported by USACE. AFCS is an engineering construction support program for Army mission construction.
4-10. AFCS also supports emergency construction during disaster relief in any area when required. It
provides planning guidance, construction drawings, a bill of materials, and labor and equipment estimates.
AFCS designs include troop camps, hospitals, bridges, marine terminals, port facilities, petroleum storage
and distribution facilities, and ammunition storage facilities.
4-11. The facilities and components in the AFCS satisfy many of the base camp and bed-down facility
requirements identified during planning. The AFCS provides ready-made, on-the-shelf standard designs that
are site-adaptable, scalable, and capable of serving many functions. The AFCS facilities have an expected
design life of at least 24 months.

DRAINAGE
4-12. The constructing unit establishes construction drainage on the construction site to prevent water from
interfering with the construction progress. Construction drainage may be temporary drainage structures or
part of the permanent drainage system constructed early.

4-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

PROTECTION
4-13. The constructing unit constructs protective structures using protection designs, construction
techniques, and methods discussed in AFCS program guidelines and ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4-14. NTRP 4-04.2.5/TM 3-34.42/AFPAM 32-1020/MCRP 3-40D.5 (MCRP 3-17.7F) provides all Services
the common methods, procedures, and formats for construction project management at the operational unit
level required by military engineers to successfully plan, schedule, and execute construction projects in
deployed locations. The duration and amount of effort for each phase depend on mission variables (the scope
and complexity of the project involved, the time available for planning, and the operational environment).
Project management does not replace the military planning process used by each Service for contingency and
crisis action planning or troop leading procedures at the tactical level.
4-15. The Army has designated some duty positions that require program or project management
professional certification. Planners use the construction project management as a tool to assist them in their
process of coordinating the skill and labor of personnel using machines and materials to configure the
materials into a desired structure.
4-16. Figure 4-1 shows the project management process that divides the effort into three parts: preliminary
planning, detailed planning, and project execution. Preliminary planning may include the completion of
detailed designs by the constructing unit or provide an adjustment to the designs as required by information
obtained from the site investigation.

Figure 4-1. Project management process
4-17. General engineer planners and construction units rely extensively on the JCMS to produce the products
required by the project management system. Effective products produced during the planning phases greatly
assist during the construction phase. In addition to the JCMS, the engineer has various other reachback tools
or organizations that can exploit resources, capabilities, and expertise that is not organic to the unit that
requires them.
4-18. Digital, handheld devices can be used to document existing conditions, speed accurate reporting, and
provide timely information to the construction site. They can decrease idle time on the construction site due

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-3

Chapter 4

to decreased wait time for information. They can also decrease the time spent by supervisors on nondirect
construction tasks, such as reports and requests for information on-site and to or from higher headquarters.
4-19. Based on careful analysis, construction assignments, required facilities, and scheduled target dates for
phased development as outlined in the OPORD, general engineers can formulate a construction schedule.
Construction schedules are prepared to show a detailed time plan for operations in proper sequence. The
equipment hours and man-hours required for each principal operation are then tabulated.
4-20. The construction schedule is based on the—
 Time allowed for completion.
 Available equipment and special assets required.
 Type of labor available (regular troop units, reserve troop units, newly activated troop units, local
contractors, international contractors).
 Delivery of construction materials.
 Activity sequence and critical path.
 Necessary delays between activities.
 Projected weather and climate conditions.
 Force protection, antiterrorism considerations, and threat assessments.
 Environmental, health, and safety considerations.

JOBSITE SAFETY
4-21. Jobsite safety at the construction site is important in preventing injuries, avoiding accidents, and
preventing death. The following are some of the resources that are available to assist engineers in safety
considerations:
 AR 385-10, ATP 5-19, DA Pam 385-1, and DA Pam 385-10.
 Unit safety standard operating procedures.
 Commander’s guidance and policies.
 United States Army Safety Center. See the U.S. Army Combat Readiness Center website for
additional information.
 Center for Army Lessons Learned. See the CALL website for additional information.
 Engineer Manual 385-1-1. See the USACE Publications website for additional information.
 Naval Safety Center.
 Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration. See the Department of
Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration website for additional information on safety
standards.

JOBSITE SECURITY
4-22. Jobsite security is of paramount importance in preserving the force. Engineers in a combat role may
have limited personnel to accomplish their construction mission, yet they may find themselves devoting labor
to provide jobsite security in high-threat areas. Consider requesting external augmentation from infantry or
other combined arms units for jobsite security forces. This will allow the engineer to devote labor resources
toward construction project completion.

METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION
4-23. The major construction methods used by military general engineers is on-site construction, designbuild construction, and modular construction. The on-site construction of buildings is also called stick-built
or stick frame if referring to carpentry. Larger post-and-beam or timber frames may be used for bunkers and
protective structures. Most military construction units use on-site construction.
4-24. Planners determine the major construction methods for various requirements based on operational
considerations and economic analysis. Standardizing the construction methods used throughout an
operational area simplifies estimating methods, safety requirements, training requirements, quality assurance,

4-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

quality control, and O&M. Each construction technique has various construction methods with
considerations, advantages, and disadvantages. The construction unit adjusts the construction methods based
on local conditions, material availability, local construction methods and labor skills, and the ability of the
HN to maintain facilities intended to be turned over to them when no longer needed.
4-25. Construction is a broad term that may include the following tasks:
 Provide new construction.
 Upgrade existing facilities.
 Assemble or erect pre-engineered buildings or systems.
4-26. Deconstruction is done to scale down the size of a facility, structure, or building. During
deconstruction, many of the same construction techniques may be used if the materials are to be reused on
other projects. Deconstruction may simply be the reverse of a construction technique. Demolition may be
carefully performed to allow the reuse of some construction materials, or demolition may be completed to
prevent the enemy from reusing a facility.
4-27. Construction may be provided by—
 Military units. Troop construction is economical because it eliminates labor cost and contractor
profit. Tactical considerations may create situations in which HN support contractors are unwilling
or unable to undertake construction projects. Troop construction is more flexible because there are
no contracts to negotiate for changes in plans, specifications, or required available time
allowances.
 Contractors. Contractors bring laborers with specialized skill sets in the desired numbers with
specialized equipment and required resources. Contractors have greater flexibility, as opposed to
troop labor that is restricted by combat mission demands. Troop construction equipment may not
be as specialized as contractor equipment because it must be rugged and flexible enough to meet
combat conditions. Contractors bring a dedicated pool of talent to focus exclusively on the
construction project, as opposed to troops who must focus on combat mission and other military
duties. See JP 3-34 for military construction authorities, roles, and responsibilities.
 Local labor. Using local labor may be more economical than bringing in external contractors from
the United States or other countries. Precautions should be taken to that ensure local labor is vetted.
 HN labor assets. Similar to local labor, HN labor may provide the right skill sets and resources
to meet construction project needs within economical cost.

HOST-NATION SUPPORT CONSIDERATIONS
4-28. HN support can expand the capabilities of friendly forces by reducing the requirements for engineer
units and expediting construction. In the rehabilitation of developed areas, it may be practical to arrange the
employment of HN engineers, contractors, and superintendents with their organizations. These may include
a variety of skilled workers. In many undeveloped areas of operations, local businesses have established
organizations to employ and supervise labor in agriculture and other pursuits. Such organizations can often
provide labor to assist in construction projects. Precautions should be taken to ensure that local labor is vetted.
4-29. The plans for employing civilian labor must include adequate consideration of housing costs,
transportation methods, local customs, language difficulties, locally determined complications due to race or
religion, and adapting construction plans to the methods and materials to be used. The use of local civilian
labor may result in savings in mobilization and demobilization costs, and additional savings due to the local
wage scale.

DESIGN BUILD
4-30. Design-build (also called design and build contracting process, or method of delivery) is a common
construction method used by industry and Service construction agents. Typically, construction designs are
completed by architectural engineer firms, who then request construction bids from civilian construction
firms. Then, the project is built by construction firms (a design-bid-build contracting process). Design-build
combines these two processes together by having a single organization perform them to achieve time and
cost savings.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-5

Chapter 4

4-31. Concurrently, construction can begin based on some completed designs, while other designs are
completed as construction progresses. As the project progresses, the constructing unit has the opportunity to
provide immediate input to the design based on site conditions, available materials, and preferred
construction methods. Most military unit construction is designed and then built, sometimes by the same unit.
However, on a larger, more complicated project without all requirements known at the start, design and
construction conducted concurrently as information becomes available is an effective construction method.

MODULAR CONSTRUCTION
4-32. Modular construction is a method of construction, not a building type. Modular construction involves
procuring commercially prefabricated or military unit prefabricated buildings, components, or systems of
multiple sections (called modules) that are joined together on-site. Engineers provide the contracting office,
quality and construction standards, specifications, and codes that the contracted modules must meet.
4-33. The prefabricated sections are typically transported to the site by truck and then, depending on weight,
are off-loaded, and positioned with a crane or other material-handling equipment. The constructing unit
assembles the prefabricated sections with organic tools or special tools provided as part of the system. The
modules may require limited site preparation or a foundation that can be constructed simultaneously with
off-site module construction.
4-34. The modules may be prefabricated as a box that has more shipping volume or as flat panels or
components that have less shipping volume but require more assembly time on-site. Depending on
transportation restrictions, the modules may be up to 20 feet wide and 90 feet long. Precast or prefabricated
concrete panels, structural insulated panels, or other major building components may be produced on-site,
contracted for and shipped, or locally procured.
4-35. Modular construction may produce semipermanent facilities that may be disassembled and reused.
Another possibility is to design and procure relocatable buildings that are partially or completely assembled.
Relocatable modular buildings are designed to be reused multiple times and transported to different sites.
4-36. Modular construction may offer several advantages to site-built facilities, such as—
 Increased design time savings (comes predesigned).
 Increased construction speed.
 Fewer weather considerations.
 Increased flexibility of configurations and module layouts (modules that may be disassembled,
refurbished, and reused).

CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
4-37. Depending on the project type, required construction materials can be expensive, specialized, and
unique. There are a variety of different materials that can be used in construction, including steel, rock, wood,
and concrete. Class IV supplies include all construction materials and installed facility equipment.
4-38. Theater requisitions for engineer construction materials must take careful account of project
requirements for special, large-scale combat operations. Issues from stocks are based on the requirements for
the particular work on which the requisitioning unit is engaged. Critical items of Class IV supplies may be
issued under policies approved by the assistant chief of staff, logistics (G-4); uncontrolled items are issued
on-call.
4-39. The task of providing engineer construction supplies can be quite comprehensive and costly, and every
effort must be made to simplify it through the use of local procurement channels and standardized designs.
The unit supply officer maintains a local inventory of continuous stocks of construction materials and
equipment. Class IV supplies suitable for local procurement may include lumber, cement, structural steel,
sand, gravel, rock, plumbing and electrical supplies, hardware, and paint.

PROCUREMENT
4-40. Obtaining materials on time and in the quantity and quality needed must be coordinated and
synchronized to support the assembly of other resources (time, personnel, equipment) to complete the project.

4-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

Construction of any kind will fail if the required materials (or suitable substitutes) are not available when
needed. Efforts to obtain the proper material begin early during the planning phase (receipt of mission or
construction directive) and do not end until the project is completed and turned over.
4-41. For procurement, engineers have the option of obtaining materials from the United States through the
service supply system, from countries as adjacent to the AOR as possible, and from local suppliers. Each
method has inherent costs and benefits. Environmental impacts (such as deforestation and erosion) of using
natural resources is a consideration. Engineer units may be used—or a contractor hired—to produce the
necessary materials. Whatever the method, obtaining resources must be an integral part of planning and
executing tasks to properly accomplish the mission.

Class IV Materials
4-42. Units may obtain construction materials by using standard supply procedures that unify the way in
which they are requested, managed, and distributed. Most construction materials are Class IV materials and
are distributed according to unit standard operating procedures. Many Class IV materials are also used for
field fortifications, fighting positions, and other types of protection work, making it likely that they are in
high demand and necessitate engineer involvement in distribution decisions.
4-43. Class IV supplies are not maintained in significant quantities and are bulky. This makes handling and
transporting supplies over strategic distances difficult. Obtaining construction materials through supply
channels is considered the least efficient and desirable method for construction missions. Engineers should
only use this method after determining that the materials are unavailable locally, the proper quantity and
quality cannot be met locally, or the cost to obtain them is prohibitively high. Logisticians must constantly
track the status of orders throughout the requisition process to ensure that they are fulfilled.
4-44. Maintaining Class IV supply points is a logistics function that engineer units are not organized or
equipped to perform. Although engineer units should avoid operating Class IV supply points, recent and
repeated experience in contingency environments has shown that engineers are habitually forced to do so to
ensure the completion of construction missions, particularly when time constraints exist. Engineers should
be involved, but they should not be required to run Class IV supply points. Units may need to be creative in
the way they obtain Class IV supplies, such as using materials from base camps that are closing.

Other Procurement Methods
4-45. Engineers may also procure construction materials in-theater by using local-purchase procedures and
contracting methods. In a contingency, logisticians must rapidly learn the methods and rules for obtaining
construction supplies through the appropriate system. To maximize its benefits, local procurement should be
coordinated to occur as close as possible to the actual construction site to minimize transportation
requirements. Engineers must learn specific procedures and rules for local purchase procedures and
contracting. Some of the options include a—
 Government-wide commercial purchase card. This card is a useful instrument for the purchase
of supplies up to an established limit. It is an effective method for small purchases. When
deploying, users must determine the specific rules for their card during the specific contingency.
Depending on the deployment location, there may be problems with finding vendors who are
willing to accept a government-wide commercial purchase card.
 Blanket purchase agreement. A blanket purchase agreement is a simplified method of filling
anticipated repetitive needs for supplies by establishing charge accounts with qualified sources of
supply. A blanket purchase agreement is a written understanding between the government and a
supplier that eliminates the need for individual purchase and payment documents.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-7

Chapter 4

Prime Vendor Program. This is a DOD-institutionalized program that is operated by the Defense
Logistics Agency. It establishes a series of contracts with different vendors. When a specific item
is needed, each vendor is given an opportunity to bid to fill the order in a set period of time.
Logistics Civil Augmentation Program. This program is for the preplanned use of a civilian
contractor to augment capabilities of selected forces during a contingency. Units may obtain
logistics support, to include Class IV supplies, through this program.





Considerations
4-46. Although obtaining materials for construction missions is often the most advantageous method of
needed requirements, engineers must consider the following factors:
 Standard sizes of construction materials may be different in the area of operations. Dimensional
lumber is often cut to different standards in foreign countries. Voltage systems in overseas
locations are also typically different from the United States.
 The quality of different items may be considered substandard. Lumber, concrete, and asphalt are
three examples of construction materials that are typically not consistent with U.S. standards.
 Language and cultural differences may make it difficult to communicate and obtain supplies. In
some situations, local vendors may feel that it is more important to try to please you in initial
discussions than to tell you the truth about whether they are capable of providing materials in the
quantity and quality needed.
 Military operations may drive up prices. Shortages caused by multiple units competing for the
same resource may induce local suppliers to inflate prices and profiteer from ongoing operations.
4-47. Table 4-1 is a list of supplies that units might maintain in an engineer Class IV supply point during a
contingency. Note that it contains only very basic materials and supplies.
Table 4-1. Sample stockage material for engineer Class IV supply point
Line

4-8

Nomenclature

NSN

UI

4

AA

Sandbags

8105-00-142-9345

HD

4

AB

Wire, barbed

5660-00-224-8663

RO

4

AC

Wire, concertina

5660-00-921-5516

RO

4

AD

Pickets, long, 6' long

5660-00-270-1510

EA

4

AF

Pickets, short, 3' long

5660-00-270-1589

EA

4

AG

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 2' x 2' x 10'

2590-99-169-0183

EA

4

AH

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 2' x 2' x 4'

2590-99-001-9392

EA

4

AI

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 3' x 3' x 2 1/2’

2590-99-001-9393

EA

4

AJ

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 3' x 5' x 2 1/2’

2590-99-001-9395

EA

4

AK

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 4 1/2’ x 3 1/2’ x 2 1/2’

2590-99-835-7866

EA

4

AL

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 4 1/2’ x 4' x 2 1/2’

2590-99-391-0852

EA

4

AM

Barrier, Hesco bastion, 7' x 7' x 7 1/2’

2590-99-335-4902

EA

4

AN

Lumber, 1" x 6" x 12'

5510-00-220-6080

EA

4

area of
operations

Lumber, 1" x 4" x 12'

5510-00-220-6078

EA

4

AP

Lumber, 1" x 10" x 12'

5510-00-220-6084

EA

4

AQ

Lumber, 2" x 4" x 8'

5510-00-220-6194

EA

4

AR

Lumber, 2" x 4" x 10'

5510-00-220-6194

EA

4

AS

Lumber, 2" x 4" x 12'

5510-00-220-6194

EA

4

AT

Lumber, 2" x 6" x 8'

5510-00-220-6196

EA

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

Table 4-1. Sample stockage material for engineer Class IV supply point (continued)
Line / Lookup
Value
4

AU

Nomenclature

NSN

UI

Lumber, 2" x 6" x 10'

5510-00-220-6196

EA

4

AV

Lumber, 2" x 8" x 14'

5510-00-220-6198

EA

4

AW

Lumber, 2" x 10" x 12'

5510-00-220-6200

EA

4

AX

Lumber, 2" x 12" x 12'

5510-00-220-6202

EA

4

AY

Lumber, 4" x 4" x 8'

5510-00-220-6178

EA

4

AZ

Lumber, 4" x 4" x 10'

5510-00-220-6178

EA

4

BA

Lumber, 4" x 4" x 16'

5510-00-220-6178

EA

4

BB

Timber, 6" x 6" x 8'

5510-00-550-6825

EA

4

BC

Timber, 6" x 6" x 10'

5510-00-550-6825

EA

4

BD

Plywood, ½” x 4' x 8' ply

5530-00-128-5143

EA

4

BE

Plywood, 5/8” x 4' x 8' ply

5530-00-128-5147

EA

4

BF

Plywood, 3/4" x 4' x 8' ply

5530-00-128-5151

EA

4

BG

Nail, common wire steel 5d

5315-00-010-4656

LB

4

BH

Nail, common wire steel 8d

5315-00-010-4659

LB

4

BI

Nail, common 3" 10d

5315-00-753-3883

LB

4

BJ

Nail, common 3 1/4” 12d

5315-00-753-3884

LB

4

BK

Nail, common 3 1/2” 16d

5315-00-753-3885

LB

4

BL

Nail, common 20d

5315-00-753-3886

LB

4

BM

Screening, insect nonmetal 48” wide

8305-00-559-5047

YD

4

BN

Bolt machine 3/4" x 12" with nut

5306-00-550-3697

EA

4

BO

Washer flat cad stl 13/16" id 2" od

5310-00-236-6478

EA

4

BP

Hinge butt steel leaves 3 1/2" x 1 3/4"

5340-00-243-6193

EA

4

BQ

Hook and eye door steel 3"

5340-00-243-3224

EA

4

BR

Nipple pipe steel galv 1/2" x 4" long

4730-00-196-1547

EA

4

BS

Union pipe galv for 1/2" pipe

4730-00-240-1674

EA

4

BT

Elbow pipe galv 1/2" x 90° angle

4730-00-278-4773

EA

4

BU

Elbow pipe galv 3/4" x 90° angle

4730-00-249-1478

EA

4

BV

Reducer, pipe galv 3/4" to 1/2"

4730-00-231-5650

EA

4

BW

Valve gate brz scr 3/4" class 125

4820-00-288-7567

EA

4

BX

Pipe steel galv 3/4" x 21 feet thds

4710-00-162-1019

EA

4

BY

Nipple pipe steel galv 3/4" x 4" long

4730-00-196-1500

EA

4

BZ

Nipple pipe steel galv 3/4" x 2" long

4730-00-196-1505

EA

4

CA

Union pipe galv fem 3/4" 300 psi/wog

4730-00-240-1675

EA

4

CB

Coupling pipe mall irn 1/2" std wt

4730-00-187-7612

EA

4

CC

Coupling pipe mall irn 3/4" std wt

4730-00-187-7613

EA

4

CD

Cap pipe galv mall iron 1/2"

4730-00-231-2424

EA

4

CE

Cap pipe galv mall iron 3/4"

4730-00-231-2425

EA

4

CF

Primer adhesive for PVC pipe

8040-01-001-2705

PT

4

CG

Pipe PVC dwv sch 40 20’ lg 2"

4710-00-476-5870

EA

4

CI

Outlet box, 4” x 4 1/2" to 3/4" knockout

5975-00-159-0969

EA

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-9

Chapter 4

Table 4-1. Sample stockage level for engineer Class IV supply point (continued)
Line

Nomenclature

NSN

UI

4

CJ

Cover junction box 4” square flat

5975-00-281-0057

EA

4

CK

Jct box rect sfc mtd for sw or recp

5975-00-281-0090

EA

4

CL

Cable 1/c 6 AWG 7-str cu bare mhd

6145-00-299-4456

EA

4

CM

Cable 3/c&gnd 12 AWG sol cu nmc

6145-00-519-1332

FT

4

CN

Cable 2/c&gnd 12 AWG sol cu nmc

6145-00-519-2718

CL

4

CO

Cable 1/c 1/0 awg19-str cu thw black

6145-00-939-4951

FT

4

CP

Cable 1/c 1/0 awg19-str cu thw blue

6145-01-204-6473

FT

4

CQ

Cable 1/c 1/0 awg19-str cu thw white

6145-01-204-6477

FT

4

CR

Cable 1/c 1/0 awg19-str cu thw red

6145-01-204-6478

FT

4

CS

Lamp fluorescent f40t12 cool white

6240-00-152-2987

EA

4

CT

Lamp incandescent 115v 100 w a21 bulb

6240-00-990-8191

EA

4

CU

Fxtr ltg fluorescent incandescent rs 2-40 w stl

6210-00-865-8451

EA

4

CV

Fxtr ltg wp 100 w wall mtg stl

6210-00-893-7241

EA

4

CW

Cement port gen conc constr 94 lb

5610-00-250-4676

BG

Legend:
AWG
bg
brz
c
cad
cl
conc
constr
cu
d
dwv
ea
fem
ft
fxtr
galv
gen
gnd
hd
Id
irn
jct
lb
lg
ltg
mhd
mtd
mtg
nmc

American wire gauge
bag
bronze
copper
cadmium
class
concrete
construction
copper
penny
drain, waste, and vent
each
female
foot/feet
fixture
galvanized
general
ground
hundred
inch diameter
iron
junction
pound
long
lighting
medium hard drawn
mounted
meeting
National Electric Code Multi-Conductor

NSN
od
port
psi
pt
PVC
recp
rect
ro
rs
sch
scr
sfc
sol
st
std
stl
str
sw
thds
thw
v
w
wog
wp
wt
UI
yd

national stock number
olive drab
portable
per square inch
pint
polyvinyl chloride
receptacle
rectangle
roll
rustproof series
schedule
screwed
surface
solid
set
standard
steel
strand
solid wall
threads
thermoplastic vinyl-insulated building
wire
volt
watt
water, oil, or gas
wall plug
weight
unit of issue
yard

PRODUCTION
4-48. Certain types of materials are typically needed in such large quantities and are of such great weight
that engineers must produce them locally (or contract a supplier). Soil for fill, sand, and gravel are examples
of materials that are typically obtained from local sources. Contracted construction and the construction
directive for engineer units should specify quality standards for the use of local materials that are verified
through inspections as part of the quality assurance or quality control plan.

4-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

4-49. To produce more refined products, engineers may need to further process materials to obtain required
construction materials, such as crushed rock, asphalt, and concrete. There are specialized engineer units
(quarry teams, asphalt teams, concrete sections) that handle production missions for most types of
construction materials. Significant environmental considerations may be placed on U.S. forces when creating
or operating construction sites.

Geology and Materials Testing
4-50. TM 3-34.61 provides a comprehensive discussion on geology. Geology is the science that deals with
the substance, structure, and origin of earth. It is the application of chemistry, physics, biology, and related
sciences to study earth. In military operations, geologists can translate geologic information into concepts
that can be used readily and effectively in conjunction with combat and engineer needs.
4-51. Combat units can benefit from geologic information in the evaluation of soil trafficability, the
estimation of stream fordability, and the availability of cover and concealment. Engineers can use geologic
information in the location and use of construction materials, the location of groundwater supplies, the siting
of roads and airfields, the evaluation of the foundation suitability, the proper location of excavations, and the
evaluation of possible sites for underground installations. Military commanders should incorporate geologic
information with other pertinent information when planning military operations.
4-52. Material testing involves obtaining samples and performing engineering tests and calculations on soils,
bituminous paving mixtures, and concrete. These materials include aggregates, bituminous materials, and
stabilized soil, including stabilizing agents such as bitumens, cements, lime, fly ash, and chemical modifiers.
Material testing is conducted to achieve proper design with these materials and adequate control over their
use in construction. See TM 3-34.43/MCRP 3-40D.8 (MCRP 3-17.7H)/NAVFAC MO 330/
AFMAN 32-1034_IP for a further discussion on material testing. See TM 5-818-1/AFM 88-3 for information
on soils and geology.

Borrow Pits and Quarries
4-53. TM 3-34.65/NTRP 4-04.2.12/AFMAN 10-903 provides discussions on opening and operating borrow
pits and quarries. The specialized engineer unit that can assist is the quarry team. This team has trained
personnel and equipment to support borrow pit and quarrying. Engineers plan, design, and use borrow pits
and quarries. Pits and quarries are sites at which open excavations are made for the purpose of removing rock
for use in construction projects. Pits are sites that generally do not require blasting, while quarries usually
require drilling, cutting, or blasting. The rock is normally processed through a crushing and screening plant
to produce crushed rock. See TM 3-34.65/NTRP 4-04.2.12/AFMAN 10-903 for information on geology and
quarry selection, layout, and development; blast design; explosives and initiating devices; blasting; and
safety. See TM 3-34.82/MCRP 3-34.2 (MCRP 3-17.7L) for additional information on explosives and
demolitions.
4-54. Borrow pits are the preferred source of construction aggregate and fill material when resources are
scarce and material quality is not critical. They are similar to quarries except that they tend to be smaller and
generally require no blasting and minimal mechanical efforts. Materials in borrow pits seldom need to be
blasted, crushed, or screened. Though the gravel, sand, and fines obtained in a borrow pit may not be as good
as crushed stone, it is often acceptable. Equipment needed for a borrow pit includes dozers for grubbing and
clearing; dump trucks for hauling; and scoop loaders, scrapers, or cranes with a shovel and dragline for
loading.
4-55. Borrow pits are best located at the tops of hills close to or on the construction site for the ease of
material handling. If borrow pits are located away from the construction site, careful consideration should be
made in locating them to ensure operation efficiency and minimal environmental damage and impact on the
local population. During planning, units should consider the time required to close the borrow pit in the
overall timeline.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-11

Chapter 4

4-56. Quarries are similar to pits except that they generally require drilling, blasting, or the mechanical
removal of aggregate to obtain suitable material. Although not specifically part of the quarry operation,
planners may find it advantageous to collocate rock-crushing capabilities, asphalt plants, and concrete
production facilities. Specific information on quarries is contained in TM 3-34.65/NTRP 4-04.2.12/AFMAN
10-903.
4-57. In a contingency operation, if it is determined that a quarry is required, extensive planning must occur
to ensure that the operation is efficient, meets production requirements, and conforms to applicable
environmental considerations. Unless there is an extremely large construction project, it is likely that one
quarry will support multiple construction missions. Determining a quarry location must be considered in a
holistic and centralized manner. The layout of the site consists of preplanning the location, dimensions, and
arrangement of the quarry and the supporting roads and facilities. Planners must consider the mission, source
geology, amount of overburden, equipment available, access, drainage, and traffic flow when determining a
quarry location.

Crushed Rock
4-58. TM 3-34.65/NTRP 4-04.2.12/AFMAN 10-903 provides a discussion on aggregate production through
rock-crushing. Rock of specific size and gradation is required for asphalt and concrete production. Crushed
rock is used as the base course for roads and airfields. Rock from quarrying and borrow pits must be crushed,
screened and, perhaps, washed to meet specific design standards. See TM 3-34.43/MCRP 3-40D.8 (MCRP
3-17.7H)/NAVFAC MO 330/AFMAN 32-1034_IP for more information on methods of testing materials for
proper design characteristics.
4-59. Almost all contingency operations require some level of crushed-rock supply, and units with a rockcrushing capability are only in the Reserve Component. The quarry team (a specialized engineer unit) comes
equipped with a rock crusher to support this type of operation. Planners must be aware that moving and
establishing a rock-crushing capability is a time- and labor-intensive operation that must be well planned to
meet specific project time constraints.
4-60. The rock-crushing plant must be sited within a short distance of the quarry, and the collocation of these
may be ideal. The plant should be located on level ground with good drainage and adequate space for
equipment, stockpiles, and maintenance areas. An adequate supply of water must also be available for the
washing process. This water may require a settling basin or some other method to mitigate the environmental
impacts of the operation.
4-61. The two most common rock-processing units have a 75- or 225-ton production capability per hour.
Each plant consists of several large pieces of towed equipment, to include crushers, screening equipment,
washing equipment, and conveyors. The mobile crushing, screening, and washing plant is diesel- and electricmotor-driven and consists of nine major components that are capable of producing a minimum of 150 tons
per hour of aggregate that is suitable for cement or asphalt concrete.
4-62. The quarry team rock crusher components and accessories include the primary jawcrushing unit, the
secondary conecrushing unit, the surge bin unit, the tertiary conecrushing unit, the washing and screening
unit, the dolly unit, three generators, ten conveyors, and a water-pumping unit. All units are semitrailer- or
trailer-mounted and can be operated independently, tandem, or both to meet aggregate production
requirements. Planners must be aware that the actual output from a given plant differs from its normal
capacity in that it is dependent on the specific product input, the desired size of the final product, and the
proportion of the by-product.
4-63. The maintenance of rock-crushing equipment is a time-consuming process. Heavy loads and the
abrasive action of the crushing operation, along with the movement of large quantities of material, inevitably
lead to wear and damage of the equipment. The repair of older plants can be difficult because of a lack of
spare parts. Dust, noise, and other environmental considerations must be considered when planning for the
operation of a rock-crushing plant.

4-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

Asphalt
4-64. TM 3-34.63 provides information on asphalt production. The specialized engineer unit that can assist
is the asphalt team. This team has the required trained personnel and equipment to support asphalt production.
The typical Army asphalt plant is a portable, drum type, electric motor-driven facility that is capable of selferection (major components) and satisfactory operation without permanent footings. It consists of major
units, components, and accessories as required to assemble a complete plant that is capable of producing 150
tons per hour of graded asphalt paving mix.
4-65. The asphalt plant may be set up for batch and continuous mix. It is trailer-mounted and can be
interconnected mechanically and electrically and operated to the rated capacity. A good road network is
needed to avoid traffic jams and the resultant cooling of mixes. The planner must also consider the potential
environmental problems, including dust that is generated by the plant and potential soil contamination from
bitumen and fuel spills.
4-66. The construction paving unit will use some asphalt production equipment at the jobsite, to include an
asphalt melter and an oil heater. The following are key features of asphalt equipment:
 The asphalt melter is a skid-mounted, 750-gallon-per-hour, dedrumming asphalt melter. The
dedrumming tunnel is capable of removing 85- to 100-penetration cement from twelve 55-gallon
drums at one time. The unit also contains a 3,000-gallon, hot-storage compartment for heating the
asphalt to pumping temperature (235°F). Melters can operate individually, in pairs, or in trios and
can operate in parallel from a single source of hot oil.
 The oil heater is a trailer-mounted, heavy-duty, high-output capacity unit that is designed to
transfer oil and pump it through transmission lines to the asphalt melter and storage tank. It
requires fuel and external electric power for operation.
4-67. Asphalt as a construction material has advantages and disadvantages. As a surface covering for roads
and airfields, it provides a flexible and durable covering. However, it is impacted by extremes in climate and
weather conditions affecting its structure. It requires continuous maintenance to remain serviceable and to
extend its service life.

Concrete
4-68. TM 3-34.44/MCRP 3-40D.4 provides planners, designers, and general engineers information on the
production of concrete. Planners refer to it when determining the design mixtures, form design and
construction, concrete production, and testing required for a specific mission. The specialized engineer unit
that can assist in concrete production is the concrete section. This section has the required trained personnel
and equipment to support concrete mixing.
4-69. Concrete is produced by mixing a paste of cement and water with various inert materials. The most
commonly used inert materials are sand and gravel or crushed stone. A chemical process begins as soon as
the cement and water are combined.
4-70. Concrete as a building material has advantages and disadvantages. Concrete is fireproof, watertight,
economical, easy to use, and available worldwide. However, concrete can crack, and other structural
weaknesses can detract from its appearance, survivability, and useful life.
4-71. The Army has mobile mixers in its inventory for the mass production of concrete. They are mobile and
self-contained units that can produce fresh quality concrete at the construction site.

Logging and Sawmills
4-72. The Engineer Regiment no longer maintains an organic capability to conduct logging or supply timber
products for construction. Planners must procure timber products instead of producing them or contract for
HN or civilian teams to directly support engineer requirements with logging and sawmilling if the demand is
high enough.
4-73. Some allies may have organic units in their military forces to provide lumber. If required to set up a
military logging and sawmill production site, consider using USACE reachback consultation.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-13

Chapter 4

4-74. Timber as a construction material has advantages and disadvantages. It can be durable and easily cut
into desired shapes for furniture, framing, paneling, and bracing. However, wood is impacted by weather and
temperature extremes, is flammable, and has load-bearing limitations. The use of wood depends on its
availability via forests in the area. It can be more expensive if it must be imported externally, and attempts
should first be made at local procurement.

CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES
4-75. Construction techniques are the result of time-proven best practices that are employed by general
engineers. These construction techniques may be used for initial construction or the maintenance, repair,
upgrade, or rehabilitation of existing facilities. They can also be used for some deconstruction.
4-76. Construction capabilities may be viewed as horizontal or vertical. The key features of each construction
technique are described as follows:
 Horizontal construction. Horizontal construction is earthmoving efforts to bring about a desired
design of an earth foundation. It can involve cutting and filling, the emplacement of drainage to
create a level foundation, or the moving and shaping of earth to create berms. It involves the
employment of heavy-equipment operators and a variety of heavy construction equipment. It can
set the stage for follow-on vertical construction if structures are to be built on a foundation, or
remain as a stand-alone project. Examples of horizontal construction projects are parking lots,
runways, and roads.
 Vertical construction. Vertical construction involves efforts at building or assembling structures
upwards above the ground. It can also involve underground structures, such as basements. It
usually involves the employment of masons, carpenters, plumbers, electricians, and other skilled
laborers to build floors, walls, windows, trusses, and roofs. It can involve heavy equipment to help
erect the building components and use pneumatic power equipment. Examples of vertical
construction projects are buildings and bunkers.

TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYING
4-77. Topographic surveying is performed by a topographic surveyor. A geodetic survey considers the size
and curved surface shape of the earth. A geodetic survey report is used for the positioning of field artillery
units, air defense units, aviation units, intelligence units, communications, and construction control points.
Most construction projects use plane surveys that require less accuracy and ignore the curvature of the earth.
Survey classifications include—
 Artillery.
 Basic control.
 Satellite.
 Construction.
 Airfield engineering and navigation aid.
 Hydrographic.
 Field classification and inspection.
 Land.
 Inertial.

CONSTRUCTION SURVEYING
4-78. TM 3-34.55 discusses the methods and techniques used by military construction surveyors.
Construction surveying supports planning with reconnaissance and preliminary data to aide in route and site
selection. During the construction phase, the surveyor may extend geodetic survey control from a
construction control point or use plane surveys to support the layout and quality control of the road, airfield,
bridge, facility, utility, or building. Survey types may be reconnaissance survey, preliminary survey, final
location survey, and construction layout survey. The accuracy of the survey is normally determined by the
project manager.

4-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

EARTHMOVING
4-79. TM 3-34.62/MCRP 3-40D.9 discusses earthmoving. Earthmoving or horizontal construction is
required on most construction projects. Major horizontal construction projects are typically roads and
airfields. Depending on site conditions, earthmoving for site preparation may consume most of the
construction resources.
4-80. Earthmoving efforts may include site preparation; excavation; embankment; construction; backfill;
dredging; base course, subbase, and subgrade preparation; compaction; and road surface.
4-81. The phases of horizontal construction projects include—
 Preparing the subgrade.
 Placing and spreading fill material.
 Compacting fill material for the subgrade and base courses.
 Performing finishing and surfacing.
4-82. Earthmoving is conducted with dozers; scrapers; graders; loaders; dump trucks; forklifts; cranes;
hydraulic excavators; air compressors and pneumatic tools; hauling equipment; and soil-processing,
compaction, and surfacing equipment.
4-83. The types of equipment used and the environmental conditions affect the personnel and equipment
required to complete a given amount of work. Each piece of equipment is specifically designed to perform
certain mechanical tasks. Before preparing estimates, select the best method of operation and the best type
of equipment to use based on economy and effectiveness for each earthmoving operation. Engineers estimate
equipment production rates from experience, unit standard operating procedures, doctrinal manuals, or
operator and maintenance manuals for the make and model of equipment being used.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.55 for information on the use of surveying to plan and estimate earthwork.
2. See NTRP 4-04.2.3/TM 3-34.41/MCRP 3-40D.12 for information on earthmoving estimates.
3. See EP 1110-1-8 series for information on cost estimates and the hourly usage cost for
construction equipment.

CONCRETE AND MASONRY
4-84. TM 3-34.44/MCRP 3-40D.4 discusses concrete and masonry. Concrete and masonry refer to the
materials used in building construction and construction techniques. Concrete work includes—
 Determining concrete mixtures (mix design).
 Designing and constructing forms (concrete slab on grade thickness design).
 Developing construction, reconnaissance, site preparation, excavation, and form procedures.
 Mixing, handling, transporting, placing, finishing, and curing concrete.
 Conducting form removal and repairing techniques.
4-85. Concrete may be reinforced by adding steel or other materials. Precast concrete products may also be
procured. Precast concrete is a mixture of aggregates that are held together by a hardened paste, which is
typically made by combining Portland cement with water. There are five common types and several special
types of Portland cements, all with varying properties and uses. Admixtures can also be added to concrete to
modify properties.
4-86. Concrete has a great variety of applications. It meets structural demands and lends itself to architectural
treatment. In buildings, concrete is used in major building components (footings, foundations, columns,
beams, girders, wall slabs, roof units). Other important concrete applications are in road and airfield
pavements, bridges, dams, irrigation canals, water diversion structures, sewage treatment plants, and water
distribution pipelines. Asphalt cement is used to make asphalt cement concrete for paving.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-15

Chapter 4

4-87. Masonry materials usually include concrete blocks, bricks, and structural clay tiles and may also
include rubble stone masonry. Masons use specialized equipment to lay out and construct masonry walls and
other building features. Masons determine the correct mixing proportions for mortar to bond the masonry
units together and safely erect scaffolding.
4-88. Masonry construction procedures include—
 Modular coordination and planning.
 Rubble stone masonry.
 Bricklaying.
 Reinforced brick masonry.
 Structural clay tile masonry.
4-89. Each procedure has its own construction techniques. Modular coordination occurs when the design of
a building, its components, and the building material all conform to a dimensional standard based on a
modular system. Modular measure is the system of dimensional standards for buildings and building
components that permit field assembly without cutting.

CARPENTRY
4-90. TM 3-34.47/MCRP 3-40D.3 discusses carpentry details; concrete forms (because concrete forms are
constructed from wood); nonstandard, fixed, wood construction bridges (timber trestle bridges); and timber
pile wharves. Carpentry is the skilled labor of making, finishing, and repairing wooden objects and structures.
Carpentry work includes light wood framing, heavy wood framing (timber construction), finish carpentry,
and roof construction. Carpenters use their skills to perform metal construction work and to erect metal
buildings from a complete set of construction drawings (a set of plans).
4-91. Carpentry routinely uses two methods for erecting buildings as follows:
 The built-in-place method.
 The panel method (or preassemble method).
4-92. Carpenters are issued hand tool kits, power tool kits, and other equipment (such as pneumatic
compressors and nail guns) to increase productivity. Carpentry tools include saws, blades, hammers,
sawhorses, braces, and other specialized woodworking tools. Carpenters are assigned to vertical construction
platoons and can be organized into work teams to ensure speed and efficiency.

FACILITIES ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
4-93. TM 3-34.46/MCRP 3-17.7K discusses the design, layout, installation, and maintenance of facility
electrical systems. Interior electricians install and maintain electrical wiring. Electricians are equipped with
electrician tool kits and support equipment. They are assigned to vertical construction platoons and can be
organized into work teams for construction projects.

4-16

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Construction

Notes.
1. See UFC 3-501-01 for information on electrical engineering.
2. See TM 5-683/NAVFAC MO-116/AFJMAN 32-1083 for information on electrical facility
maintenance.
3. See UFC 3-550-01 for information on power systems.
4. See UFC 3-520-01 for information on exterior and interior lighting.
5. See UFC 3-560-01 for information on electrical safety.

PLUMBING AND PIPEFITTING
4-94. TM 3-34.70/MCRP 3-17.7E discusses plumbing, pipefitting, and sewerage. Plumbing is a system of
piping, apparatuses, and fixtures for water supply and distribution and waste disposal within a building. It
includes the installation and maintenance of these systems. Plumbers are equipped with plumber tool kits and
pipefitter kits and are assigned to vertical construction units. They can be organized into work crews for
construction projects. Plumbers install and repair water systems, waste systems, fixtures, and heating
systems; cut, ream, thread, and bend pipes; and caulk, solder, and test joints and systems for leaks. See
ATP 4-43 for additional information on military petroleum pipeline systems.

WASTE MANAGEMENT
4-95. Waste management is the collection, transport, treatment, or disposal of waste materials in an effort to
ensure a healthy and sanitary environment. For more information about waste management,
see TM 3-34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7.
4-96. Integrated waste management is the management of the entire waste process, including generation,
storage, collection, transportation, resource recovery, treatment, and disposal. It employs several waste
control methods based on the waste hierarchy (avoidance, reduction, recycling, reuse, recovery, treatment,
and disposal) and is aimed at minimizing the environmental impact of waste. For more information about
waste management, see TM 3-34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7.
4-97. Engineers have staff proponency for waste management. Waste is categorized as nonhazardous solid
waste, wastewater, hazardous and special waste, and medical waste. Waste management includes the
construction, operation, and maintenance of new (and the upgrade of existing) utilities (examples are sewage
collection and treatment or landfill construction) and the construction of facilities for the purpose of waste
management.
4-98. JCMS provides some options for collection, treatment, and disposal facilities. See TM 3-34.56/MCRP
3-40B.7 and TM 3-34.70/MCRP 3-17.7E for a detailed discussion on waste management. See UFC 3-24001 for information on wastewater treatment systems operation and management.

PAVING
4-99. To construct roads and airfields, the military typically conducts three types of paving and surfacing:
bituminous pavements and surfaces, concrete pavements, and expedient pavements. Bituminous pavement
(wearing surface) is a compacted mass of bitumen and aggregate.
4-100. Concrete pavements usually combine Portland cement, water, and aggregates with possible
admixtures. TM 3-34.63 discusses construction materials and equipment; mix design; and the production,
placement, and repair of bituminous and concrete pavements. It also provides a detailed discussion of
expedient pavements and surfaces.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

4-17

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 5

Seaports
Strategic sealift forces are employed in all phases of strategic mobility (predeployment
[pre-positioned force, equipment,
or supplies],
deployment [surge],
sustainment/combat service support, and redeployment). In general, sealift delivers
and redeploys Army heavy combat and supporting units, Marine Corps forces, their
equipment, and sustainment/combat service support (see JP 3-36). Obtaining adequate
port facilities for sealift forces early in any contingency is essential to the efficient flow
of troops and materiel (see JP 3-0 for additional information). Securing these facilities
is often an initial objective of an overseas operation. This chapter discusses the scope
of port activities, planning and design, construction methods, maintenance and repair,
and logistics over-the-shore (LOTS) support. Seaport planning efforts may need to be
applied to the front end and back end for deployment and redeployment. When a force
is redeploying, the port from which they embark is called the seaport of embarkation
in-theater and the seaport of debarkation in the United States. The seaport of
debarkation is relative depending on which way the force is going. It is possible that a
port which is being improved by engineers could be used as a seaport of debarkation
for deployment and as a seaport of embarkation for redeployment. However, during
redeployment, the original port of embarkation may not necessarily be used and
another port may be assigned. During deployment and redeployment, seaport roles may
need to be switched, capabilities adjusted, and capacity modified to accommodate
throughput requirements. Space must be planned for future expansion and
construction. This manual does not discuss construction support to U.S. seaports of
embarkation or aerial ports of embarkation; such support to create ports with planned
capacity would normally be completed before contingencies.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
5-1. Port construction, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion are of vital importance to the success of
any mission because they support assured mobility at the strategic level and are most often inherently joint
operations. Building and operating a port in a JOA is a large and vital undertaking, with many responsibilities
divided between the Navy and branches of the Army.
5-2. The CCDR or ASCC/MCCC makes basic decisions concerning port location, capacity, utilization,
wharfage, and storage facilities. Their decisions are supported by the United States Transportation Command
headquarters (see ATP 4-0.1 and JP 3-36). The CCDR may assign construction responsibilities to Army,
Navy, or engineer units, depending on their capabilities, their availability, and the overall situation. Mutually
supporting or follow-on construction must be coordinated with other engineer units that are assigned to, or
projected for, the area of operations.
5-3. The Army and the Navy maintain an organic capability to perform LOTS missions in support of their
respective Service and can support the CCDR’s requirement for JLOTS. See JP 3-36 for additional
information on JLOTS. LOTS can be conducted over unimproved shorelines and through fixed ports. See
JP 4-18 for additional information on JLOTS systems, requirements, capabilities, and limitations.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-1

Chapter 5

JOINT TASK FORCE PORT OPENING
5-4. A JTF port opening force provides the supported ground component commander rapid port opening
capability in advance of other forces. This task force integrates Service organic capability and enables the
United States Transportation Command to rapidly deploy (within 36 hours) and establish and initially operate
(45–60 days) a seaport of debarkation and a distribution node. See JP 4-09 for additional information on port
opening.

ARMY SERVICE COMPONENT COMMANDER
5-5. According to 10 USC, the ASCC may be tasked for the construction, expansion, rehabilitation, or
conversion of a port, which may include—
 Studies of intelligence reports, assessments, and available reconnaissance information that apply to
each port area considered for use.
 A tentative determination of the ports or coastal areas to be used as part of the overall strategic
planning.
 Assignment of the port mission.
 A determination of port requirements.
 A tentative decision on the general methods of construction to be used.
 A determination of engineer units, special equipment, and materials required.
5-6. The ASCC assistant chief of staff, movements, is responsible for operating ports and furnishing liaisons
with the Navy, Coast Guard, and other interested military and authorized civilian agencies of allied countries
and the United States. The assistant chief of staff, movements, advises and makes recommendations
concerning the engineer troops employed and the work concerned (see the annex in the joint OPLAN or
OPORD for environmental considerations).

NAVY
5-7. The Navy possesses many of the same capabilities for port construction as the Army (see JP 3-34).
The Navy assigns its Seabees for pier, wharf, port, and waterfront construction and repair. See NTTP
3-10.1M/MCTP 3-34D. Close coordination between the forces must be done to avoid duplicate or
counterproductive efforts. Naval civil engineering capabilities are discussed in NWP 4-04. The Navy can
employ organic mobile underwater dive and salvage teams, underwater construction teams, and explosive
ordnance disposal dive teams (depending on threatcon and conditions at the seaport). Navy explosive
ordnance disposal teams can remove, dispose of, or neutralize unexploded explosive ordnance and explosive
ordnance (including sea mines).

MARINE CORPS
5-8. The Marine Corps possess general engineer capacities with a smaller overall engineer force than the
Army and have no special seaport capabilities (see MCWP 3-34). Most Marine engineer forces are primarily
task-organized to support maneuver units and may only provide limited port construction that is sufficient to
move Marine units through a port. Marine engineering capabilities are also discussed in NWP 4-04.

ARMY ENGINEER UNITS
5-9. Army engineer unit capabilities are discussed in FM 3-34. Army engineer units may be responsible for
port construction, expansion, rehabilitation, conversion, and maintenance and for the coordination of work
with that of Navy units. Army engineer dive teams perform minor to moderate salvage diving, such as
clearing obstructions and debris from harbor entrances and improving channels. This does not include largescale salvaging, which is a Navy responsibility.

5-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

Diving Support
5-10. Building new ports and facilities requires extensive diving support. A dive detachment is normally
assigned to the ASCC to provide dive support in ports, harbors, and costal zones. Dive detachments are
assigned and attached to the theater engineer command, which allocates them according to mission
requirements. The detachment may be attached or assigned to a subordinate headquarters or task-organized
with supporting units to provide direct-support diving capabilities.
5-11. Dive detachment capabilities are tailored to the mission (allowing the use of surface-supplied diving
apparatus, scuba, and remotely operated vehicles), and they work closely with heavy equipment operators
for large-scale combat operations. Supporting diver assets range from a small scuba team to multiple larger
teams with a diverse range of capabilities. An engineer dive team has enough personnel and equipment to
conduct multiple diving activities concurrently. Divers can work up to a depth of 190 feet.
Note. The Army does not have explosive ordnance disposal-trained diving teams.
5-12. The following are essential missions for engineer divers:
 Port opening, construction, repair, and rehabilitation.
 Reconnaissance.
 Hydrographic survey.
 Underwater inspection.
 Search and recovery.
 Salvage.
 Demolition.
 Force protection.
 Ships husbandry.
 Support to JLOTS.
 Civil assistance/civil defense.
5-13. Port opening, construction, and rehabilitation missions include planning and inspection, clearance,
repair, and quality assurance inspections. Salvage missions include refloating and rigs for towing. Ship
husbandry includes in-water hull inspections, in-water maintenance, and damage control and repair. JLOTS
support includes hydrographic surveys, mooring systems, and off-shore petroleum systems. Diver civil
assistance and civil defense missions include humanitarian support, port rehabilitation, construction, and
peacetime missions.
5-14. Divers enhance force protection by conducting security swims and the emplacement or removal of
underwater obstacles and barriers. This includes installing underwater security systems. Divers also enable
expeditionary logistics by providing accurate waterway datum, surveys, and the repair of existing waterfront
facilities. Engineer dive missions assist in building capacity through infrastructure support and sustainment.
5-15. Divers also provide technical assistance and staff planning support to the ASCC through brigade
commanders. See ATP 3-34.84/MCRP 3-10.2/NTTP 3-07.7/AFTTP 3-2.75/CGTTP 3-95.17, SS521-AGPRO-010, TM 3-34.73, and TM 3-34.83 for additional information on dive teams, diving support requests,
and military diving.

Construction Support
5-16. Vertical and horizontal elements augmented with a concrete section, dive team, and other specialty
teams or sections accomplish most construction or salvage tasks. In performing their mission of construction,
expansion, rehabilitation, conversion, maintenance, and repair of a port, Army engineer responsibilities
include—
 Construction and repair of breakwaters, docks, piers, wharves, quays, moles, and loading ramps.
 Construction and maintenance of port area roads.
 Construction and major maintenance of railway facilities required by the port.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-3

Chapter 5


















Construction of storage and marshaling areas to stage military supplies, equipment or vehicles
inside the port.
Construction or reconstruction of port utilities (water supplies, electrical power systems,
sewerage).
Construction and major maintenance of tanker unloading facilities (mooring facilities; submerged
pipelines; surface pipelines; rigid petroleum, oils, and lubricant tank farms).
Maintenance and operation of port-firefighting facilities.
Dredging, except as accomplished by the Navy.
Debris and explosive-hazard port area clearance.
Real estate acquisition of buildings, facilities, and other properties within the port area for military
use.
Provisions of warehouses, depots, and quarters for port personnel and other facilities as required
for port operation.
Continuous study of the port situation.
Preparation of tentative plans for possible contingencies.
Requisitioning of the supplies and equipment required to carry out the mission.
Provision of diver support.
Liaison with naval units to coordinate construction with harbor clearance activities.
Recommendations for real estate allocations.
Recommendations based on environmental considerations, including force health and safety
protection.
Advisement to the CCDR and staff on engineering matters connected with the identification,
classification, in-transit storage, movement, and distribution of engineer equipment and Class II
and IV construction materials.

5-17. Key Army engineer capabilities include pile-driving, construction, or repair of port and waterfront
structures; support to over-the-shore causeways; underwater construction/maintenance; support to bulk fuel
storage; support to salvage and recovery; dredging; and the establishment of sites for LOTS or JLOTS (see
JP 3-34, JP 4-18, and TM 3-34.73).
5-18. The Army engineer unit with overall responsibility to support port construction may be the theater
engineer command or engineer brigade, battalion, or company, depending on the size and scope of work. For
port construction, it is essential to task-organize construction capabilities with the right type and number of
companies, platoons, sections, and teams. The modularized force may include horizontal and vertical
elements, concrete sections, dive teams, survey design sections, and other units as the mission requires.
5-19. Reachback capabilities available via the USACE Reachback Operations Center, a TeleEngineering
toolkit, or FEST capabilities, can assist general engineers in resolving unique and complex port issues in
assessments, plans, construction, expansion, rehabilitation, conversion, maintenance, repair, and upgrades.
Engineering or other experts can quickly provide the advice and expertise for achieving viable solutions. See
FM 3-34 for more information on FEST teams or visit the USACE Reachback Operations Center website.

TRANSPORTATION UNITS
5-20. Army transportation units are responsible for opening and operating the port and conducting LOTS
(see TM 3-34.73). Army equipment includes self-deploying watercraft, lighterage, modular causeway
systems, logistics support vessels, landing crafts, causeway ferries, floating piers, Trident piers, small tugs,
and barge derricks (see JP 3-36). The unit coordinates operational activities with the completion of necessary
projects and provides liaison with the Navy and Coast Guard.
5-21. The transportation unit also conducts a continuous study of port facility requirements to ensure the
smooth and orderly flow of personnel, supplies, and material through the port. The unit staff plans, supervises,
and controls freight movement from the port by rail, motor, inland water transportation and, under special
conditions, air transport.

5-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

5-22. The transportation unit is also responsible for establishing engineer port construction priorities and
terminal operations. Transportation units have the capability of providing personnel and haul assets for the
movement of mass volumes of supplies and material. See FM 4-01 for specific details on transportation unit
equipment and capabilities.

QUARTERMASTER UNITS
5-23. Army quartermaster units are responsible for supplying potable water and operating petroleum pipeline
systems, including off-vessel discharging and loading. Their capabilities include providing terminal service
unit handling equipment, shore-based water storage systems, and inland petroleum distribution systems (see
JP 3-36).
5-24. Quartermaster units coordinate with naval units, engineer units, and transportation units in determining
the location of tanker unloading and vessel fueling facilities. Quartermaster units have the capability of
providing personnel and equipment assets to support logistics and services. See TM 3-34.73 for more
information on port construction and repair.

SCOPE OF PORT OPERATIONS
5-25. According to JP 3-34, port construction is considered a general engineer activity. This chapter is a
guide for the construction and rehabilitation of ship-unloading and cargo-handling facilities in the JOA. The
coverage includes special problems encountered in port construction and the construction of supporting
structures located in and around the port facility. Conventional sealift shipping falls into four broad
categories: dry-cargo ships or freighters, liquid-cargo carriers or tankers, roll-on/roll-off vehicle ships and
passenger ships. Based on current trends in the commercial shipping industry, it is anticipated that up to 90
percent of all cargo arriving in future JOAs will be containerized. See JP 3-36 and JP 4-18 for conventional
sealift shipping and sealift ship programs.
5-26. Containerized shipping requires dock and road surfaces that are capable of withstanding severe loads
and heavy lift equipment that is capable of transferring the largest loaded container (8 feet wide, 40 feet long,
and 67,200 pounds) from large, oceangoing vessels to shore facilities. These factors should be considered
during port planning. The guidelines concerning facilities for handling containerized cargo and container
shipping outlined within this chapter represent the most current developments in this industry.
5-27. Strategic sealift includes the requirement to achieve over-the-shore cargo discharge capability to
provide minimum sustainment/combat service support to expeditionary forces for not more than 60 days
(see JP 3-36). While the situation dictates the COA, assault landing facilities are usually used for supply and
replenishment in the initial phase of a campaign, followed by LOTS and JLOTS, as discussed later in this
chapter.
5-28. As established port areas are acquired or rehabilitated, LOTS sites are normally abandoned
(see JP 4-18). However, certain areas of operations may require the use of beach sites for extended periods
of time or indefinitely due to the lack of existing facilities, the geography, the terrain, or the enemy situation.
5-29. For long-term military operations, the rehabilitation and renovation of existing port facilities is the
preferred practice. The construction of new ports is normally undesirable because it requires a large amount
of labor, materials, and time and would probably lack the desirable related facilities, such as connecting road
and rail networks. Therefore, existing ports are usually targeted for rehabilitation and upgrade. The engineer
mission is to support the construction, maintenance, and repair of a wide variety of facilities above and below
the waterline.
5-30. The planner assists in the development of a port inspection plan and provides guidance to the inspection
team for initial, on-site port surveys. After completing the initial inspections, the team leader designates the
appropriate diving element that is most capable of performing the mission. In the event that the operation
requires extensive diving assets (such as major salvage, construction, or harbor clearance), multiple dive
detachments may be task-organized to support the mission. If the inspection is being done in an unsecure
port, diving elements may require the support of security personnel.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-5

Chapter 5

5-31. A completed port inspection provides the water terminal commander a report of the existing conditions
of underwater port facility structures. A detailed report may include a hydrographic survey depicting water
depths, obstruction locations, and side scan sonar images. The information provided helps the area engineer
and unit responsible for port construction determine the scope of construction required for port repair. The
report may assist in the development of a port repair plan and time estimate. Army and Navy dive teams have
the ability to provide detailed surveys and reports using divers or robotic platforms.
5-32. A detailed report includes—
 Descriptions of structures.
 An assessment of underwater damage to existing pier facilities.
 Recommendations for restoration.
 The location and condition of sunken vessels or other obstructions.
 Water depths of ship channels within the port.
 Recommendations for vessel or obstacle removal.
 Locations of underwater explosive hazards and munitions.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
5-33. Supporting strategic transportation requirements is a four-step process discussed in JP 3-36 and
JP 4-09. Engineers are involved in transportation planning at all levels. They assist in analyzing existing
facilities and estimating and planning for construction, maintenance, and repair requirements (see
TM 3-34.73). Engineers also recommend measures for protection, security, and port defense.
5-34. Before occupying a port, planners must carefully consider the current and expected physical condition
and logistics of the port. This includes the quantity and nature of the cargo and personnel that the port will
handle. Army and Navy engineers would be involved in the initial reconnaissance and survey team activities
to determine the physical condition, repair requirements, bare-beach transfer sites, and in-leasing of port
facilities. See TM 3-34.73 for planning considerations.
5-35. Reconnaissance and survey teams should be identified and sent into existing port facilities as soon as
possible to assist planners by collecting crucial data on the existing port and infrastructure. This includes
construction and hydrographic surveys. Planners study the relative value of rehabilitation and construction
and the value of specific facilities to the construction effort required. The JFC coordinates indicated changes
and their impact on logistics through Army engineer, transportation, and other command channels and Naval
units engaged in clearance, dredging, and other harbor or waterfront projects. See JP 3-34 and TM 3-34.73
for more information on seaport planning. See TM 3-34.55 for more information on hydrographic surveys.
5-36. When possible, port construction efforts in the JOA should consider the rehabilitation and expansion
of existing facilities rather than initiating new construction. Rehabilitation and construction priorities, the
choice of construction materials, and plans of operations for the port are factors that help gain the greatest
capacity from the port while using the least expenditure of labor and material.
5-37. After the location of the port has been decided at the theater headquarters, the mission is assigned to
an appropriate engineer level of command. The location of the port is made based on an analysis of the
projected capacity of the facility, the quantity and nature of cargo to be handled, the tactical and strategic
situation, and the construction materials and assets available. Engineers may provide solutions to eliminate
facility constraints, increase or restore port throughput capacity or capabilities, and provide follow-on
movement to unit assembly areas or the objective. See ATP 4-12, ATP 4-13, FM 4-01, and JP 4-09 for
information on transportation planning considerations and requirements. See JP 4-18 for information on joint
terminal operations. See JP 4-09 for information on highway systems, rail networks, and logistics support
facilities.
5-38. Careful, comprehensive planning based on extensive and detailed reconnaissance is essential to
successful port construction. A thorough initial reconnaissance helps planners to estimate more accurate
logistics requirements by providing essential data on the physical condition of the seized or occupied port.
Reconnaissance is conducted with physical or remote capabilities.

5-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

5-39. Geospatial products may assist before, during, and after seaport reconnaissance.
Notes.
1. See ATP 4-13 for information on a marine beach profile diagram on sea, shore, and beach slope
construction requirements.
2. See FM 4-01 for information on a seaport and supporting facility layout.
4. See ATP 4-13 for information on seaport facilities.
5. See UFC 4-152-01 for designs on piers and wharves.
6. See TM 3-34.73 and TM 3-34.83 for information on dive team support planning.
5-40. There are a variety of designs for different types of port facilities and structures, including wharves
(floating and stationary), piers, causeways, breakwaters, seawalls, landing ramps, anchorages, mooring, and
support facilities.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.73 for port layouts.
2. See UFC 4 series for port designs and specifications.
3. See TM 5-850-1 for information on military port engineering designs.
4. See UFC 4-440-01 for information on port-supporting storage depots.
5-41. ATP 4-0.1 gives planning factors for approximate materials and man-hour requirements for the overall
planning and estimating of general and break-bulk cargo port construction. TM 5-301-2, TM 5-301-4, and
TM 5-303 provide information on design, material, and labor requirements for port structures.
5-42. After the port has been occupied, planners must carefully and critically examine previous plans in light
of the physical condition and structural integrity of the port. Major proposed changes that impact logistics
and scheduling must be coordinated through engineer, transportation, and command channels. Priorities
established in the OPORD may have to be modified after construction is started based on current conditions
and on-site information. Planning and scheduling are based on meeting all immediate needs, while ensuring
that all work contributes toward successful project completion.
5-43. Comparative studies are made to determine the relative value of rehabilitation of the existing port
versus new port construction. These studies compare the benefits to be gained from specific facilities within
a port to the construction effort required. Among other factors, the selection of the best ports for further
development is determined by the need for dispersion, location of logistics requirements, time and effort
required to move construction units, local availability of materials, and civilian labor.
5-44. The Army theater sustainment command estimates port capacity requirements. The engineer usually
makes an independent estimate of the port capacity under various alternative methods of construction, repair,
or rehabilitation. This procedure serves as an aid in determining the most advantageous, relative priorities of
engineer projects. However, the capacity estimates of the sustainment brigade or theater opening element
must govern with respect to military loads. Several software packages exist that are helpful in determining
port capacity and expansion requirements. Consult the reachback capabilities available through the USACE
Reachback Operations Center for information on such software packages.
5-45. On the basis of port capacity estimates, the engineer recommends schedules for the construction,
rehabilitation, and maintenance of port cranes and facilities; road and railroad construction within the port
area; preparation of storage and marshaling areas; and others. Port openings may require support for
reconnaissance, clearing obstacles, and constructing facilities.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-7

Chapter 5

UNIFIED FACILITIES CRITERIA
5-46. The UFC handbooks are guides for engineers, planners, construction workers, and facility personnel
in the scheduling, inspection, maintenance, and repair of mooring hardware at waterfront facilities and related
facilities.
5-47. The following UFC apply to port construction: UFC 4-150-02, UFC 4-150-06, UFC 4-150-07,
UFC 4-150-08, and UFC 4-151-10.

WHARF FACILITIES
5-48. Port capacity estimates are based on the discharge rates of ships at the wharf or in the stream, which
are associated with ships at anchor in connection with a JLOTS. Priority is given to methods that allow ships
to be discharged more quickly. Construction is scheduled in coordination with transportation units so that
construction activities interfere as little as possible with the discharge of ships.

ANCHORAGE
5-49. When sheltered anchorage is available, lighterage provides a means of discharging cargo while deepwater wharves are under construction or repair. By providing lighterage while construction and rehabilitation
work go forward, continued unloading is possible through the use of the following alternatives:
 The continuous dredging of the deep-water wharf approach channel by using a shallow-draft
approach and discharge outside dredging work areas.
 The use of shallow-draft parts of the wharf systems while some of the deep-water wharves are under
construction.
 The unloading of shallow-draft vessels over deep-draft wharves during construction.

LOGISTICS OVER-THE-SHORE
5-50. At least 90 percent of the tonnage required to support deployed forces in the area of operations must
be provided by sea LOCs. Although air LOCs usually carry high-priority shipments and personnel, sea LOCs
will likely bear the main burden due to greater carrying capacities of strategic sealift vessels. The
uninterrupted delivery of materiel requires that vulnerable fixed port facilities be backed up by a flexible
system, and LOTS provide that system. LOTS is the process of loading and unloading ships without the
benefit of deep draft-capable, fixed port facilities or as a means of moving forces closer to tactical assembly
areas. The scope of LOTS depends on geographic, tactical, and time considerations.
5-51. JLOTS include Marine Corps forces and occur when the Navy and Army LOTS forces conduct LOTS
together under a JFC. Armed forces LOTS involve transferring, marshaling, and dispersing materiel from a
marine system to a land transport system. The rule of thumb for planners is that 40 percent of all cargo
entering contingency theaters by surface means need to be delivered through LOTS terminals. In some
theaters, this proportion may be much greater. Beaches that are distant from fixed port facilities serve as
LOTS sites. The rapid establishment of a viable LOTS system depends on engineer construction and
maintenance support. See JP 4-18, NWP 4-0M/MCTP 13-10K (MCWP 4-2), and NTTP 3-02.1M/MCTP 1310E (MCWP 3-31.5).
5-52. Initial LOTS planning and site selection are coordinated between the theater opening element or
sustainment brigade commander (Transportation Corps) and the Navy/Military Sealift Command. The initial
site selection is based on map studies, hydrographic charts, and aerial reconnaissance.

RESPONSIBILITIES
5-53. Proper logistics planning to support deployed forces on a foreign shore always begins with an
evaluation of in-place, fixed port facilities and capacities. These, combined with connecting railway,
highway, and inland waterway networks, are the major logistics systems required for military operations.
When a reckoning of available resources is complete, planners determine the need for LOTS terminals to
supplement and back up the transportation network. See ATP 4-13 for information on LOTS layouts. See
ATP 4-13 and JP 4-18 for information on JLOTS.

5-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

5-54. The overall responsibility for LOTS lies with the Army Transportation Corps for the Army and with
the Navy for the Marine Corps. Each LOTS terminal acts under the direct control of a transportation terminal
battalion that comprises two service companies and appropriate lighterage units. The CCDR may assign
construction responsibilities to Army, Navy, and/or Marine Corps engineer units, depending on their
availability and the overall situation. Mutually supporting or follow-on construction must be coordinated
with other engineer units assigned to or projected for the area of operations.
5-55. Army engineers must be prepared to support the LOTS mission because—
 Existing ports may be damaged, incomplete, or unavailable.
 Existing ports may be unable to handle resupply.
 Existing port facilities are vulnerable to enemy activities, such as mining, CBRN, or air
interdiction.
 Ports under repair may be unavailable for long periods.
5-56. Engineer units give construction, repair, and maintenance support to LOTS. An engineer unit may
expect the following missions when supporting a JLOTS operation:
 Construct semipermanent piers and causeways.
 Prepare and stabilize beaches.
 Construct access and egress routes from beaches to backwater areas.
 Construct access routes to marshaling areas and/or adjoining LOTS sites.
 Construct marshaling and storage areas.
 Construct road and railroad links to existing LOCs.
 Construct utility systems.
 Construct petroleum, oils, and lubricant storage and distribution systems.
 Construct container collection sites.
 Provide other assistance or maintenance determined by the terminal commander.

RECONNAISSANCE
5-57. The reconnaissance party includes representatives of the terminal group commander, the terminal
battalion command, the supporting engineer, the supporting signal officer, military police, Navy personnel
to provide advice on mooring areas, and an Army engineer dive team to conduct a detailed hydrographic
survey of the site. Hydrographic surveys provide a depiction of underwater bottom profiles of an operational
shoreline or port area. Such a survey can provide accurate water depths, bottom depth gradients, ship
channels, and the locations and types of underwater obstructions or other hazards that may impede vessel
traffic. Others participate if the situation dictates or at the terminal commander’s request. The reconnaissance
party briefs the terminal commander on its findings. The briefing must cover the—
 Engineer effort required to prepare and maintain the site based on available units, equipment, and
materials.
 Signal construction and maintenance required for necessary communications within the beach area
and between the beach and the terminal group headquarters.
 Types of lighterage craft that may be used, based on beach conditions.
 Safe haven for lighterage craft in stormy weather.
 Location and desirability of mooring areas.
 Adequate egress from the beach. This and the beach dimensions are key factors in determining
throughput capacity for the beach.
 Intensity of wave action and tidal range.
 Climatic and weather conditions.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-9

Chapter 5

5-58. The supporting engineer must be informed about the layout of the LOTS site and should be involved
early in staff planning and coordinating because the layout determines the required engineer effort. A LOTS
layout varies with the situation and existing geographic conditions. The physical size of the individual site
depends on security considerations, soil trafficability, the number of ships to be unloaded at the site, and the
type of cargo coming ashore. For example, a LOTS terminal may need to be very large if ammunition and/or
petroleum, oils, and lubricants are being unloaded over a beach that is subject to enemy attack. General cargo
unloaded over a secure beach requires less area. See ATP 4-13 for information on layout figures.

LANDING CRAFT UNLOADING POINTS
5-59. Knowledge of the beaching positions designated for landing craft is important to the supporting
engineer, especially if landing points are used for extended periods of time without matting. A common
maintenance problem regarding beaching positions is the creation of troughs or pits in the beach above and
beyond the waterline. This can also impact routes from the beaches to backwater or remote areas. Troughing
is caused by landing craft ramps, which dig into the inclined beach at a steep angle. This problem is
exacerbated when wheeled vehicles dig into the sandy beach material and water washes the loosened material
away. If matting is not used, vehicles can easily bog down, stall, and get stuck in these troughs, thus slowing
or halting unloading. Engineers can reduce the troughing by placing sufficient quantities of stone or gravel
at the unloading point or by cutting down the slope of the beach. Both of these measures require periodic
maintenance for as long as the unloading points are used.

CONSTRUCTION
5-60. As discussed in other instances of construction in this publication, many construction practices apply
to, and remain constant for, seaports. Special consideration for seaport construction is discussed in the
following paragraphs.

PHASED CONSTRUCTION
5-61. Current procedures for port construction in undeveloped areas usually fall under the following phases:
 Phase One, Preliminary. This phase includes all requirements, from the arrival of construction
units to the beginning of construction of deep-draft wharves (35 feet or deeper). The LOTS are
conducted during this phase.
 Phase Two, Initial Construction. This phase continues to the point at which the first cargo ship
berth is fully operational, including road and railroad connection; water supply and electrical
services; and bulk petroleum, oils, and lubricant handling facilities that can receive liquid fuels
directly from oceangoing tankers.
 Phase Three, Completion. This phase ends when construction is complete and authorized
facilities are fully operational.

PORT CONSTRUCTION
5-62. Commercial records indicate that at least 9 months are required for a skilled construction crew of 30
to construct a modern (approximately 80 by 1,000 feet) steel or concrete pile wharf by conventional (cast-inplace and/or on-site job erection) methods. This time requirement, even allowing for larger construction
crews, is excessive for current military operations and indicates that neither steel nor concrete pile wharves
will likely be built by military units using conventional methods in the future. Recent studies indicate that
although steel and concrete are the most common building materials used in new military port construction,
their use is limited to new, unconventional construction and lower cost methods. See TM 3-34.73 for
additional information on port construction and repair.

5-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

STEEL WHARVES OR PIERS
5-63. The use of steel in future military port construction is expected to occur mainly in the construction of
expedient container ports with large, self-elevating, self-propelled, spud type barge pier units. These can be
placed into service in comparatively short periods of time with less effort and can also be retrieved for
subsequent uses.
5-64. These structures have been used extensively in the oil exploration industry. Their recommended use in
expedient port construction is their actual use in situations that are as demanding as those found in similar
modern military operations. The newer versions of these barges use truss type supports rather than caissons.
They may be elevated at a much faster rate (50 feet per hour) and are more relocatable than older barges.

CONCRETE WHARVES OR PIERS
5-65. Commercial port engineers are continuing to improve existing designs for precast concrete pier pilings,
caps, decks, and curbs and for the use of new high-strength, quick-curing concrete options. These new
techniques should considerably reduce the efforts and time requirements for conventional concrete port
construction.

SUPPORT FACILITIES
5-66. A large amount of construction effort goes into building port support facilities. If a port is located in
an area where an adequate railway or roadway network exists, then cargo-handling will be more efficient
when there are like connectors on the wharves. Engineer units are responsible for the construction of railway
and roadway facilities required by the port. Plans are staffed and coordinated with Transportation Corps
requirements.
5-67. Designs currently being recommended to the Army for future expedient military container port
construction include the use of tractor-trailers to transport individual International Standards Organization
shipping containers from the wharves. The wharf must be of sufficient load-bearing strength (capable of
supporting up to 1,000 pounds per square foot of live loads) and width (usually 80 to 100 feet) to
accommodate fully loaded tractor-trailers. They must be constructed in such a manner as to avoid excessive
breakover, approach, and departure angles and allow suitable gradients for connections to existing or planned
roadway networks. See ATP 4-12 for additional information on Army container missions.
5-68. Other on-shore construction requirements include—
 Potable and nonpotable water supply for the port and ships docked or moored in the port.
 Electric power systems, which may require overhead and underground systems.
 Firefighting facilities and special systems as needed, such as special facilities for petroleum, oils,
and lubricant terminals.
5-69. Suitable water depths must be maintained at ports to accommodate deep-draft (35 feet) sea vessel
maneuvering requirements. According to TM 3-34.73, the normal draft for a container ship is 40 feet. Daily
tidal ranges can exceed 20 feet and, therefore, must be taken into consideration when determining acceptable
channel and pier side depths. A minimum low-tide water depth of about 35 feet should be used for planning
purposes, because it will accommodate most deep-draft vessels. Current commercial container-shipping
capacity requires port depths of at least 40 feet. The planned construction of wharves in shallow water may
also be justified where—
 It is established that the required depth can be obtained by dredging, that such dredging is practical
as part of the construction project, and that dredging can be performed without endangering the
in-place wharf structure.
 Short-term use is anticipated, thus making the use of lighterage a more feasible option than
dredging or wharf relocation.
5-70. Minimum water depths for new wharf construction are dictated by the intended use of the wharf
(petroleum, oils, and lubricant wharf; container wharf; and lighter wharf), the type of wharf, and the size of
the sea vessels to be accommodated. These depths are determined well in advance and are given in the
operations order and/or construction directive.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-11

Chapter 5

5-71. Dredging may be necessary to establish and maintain required depths. Experience gained during World
War II and the Vietnam War indicates that there are a number of specific problems associated with dredging
projects in an area of operations. Hopper dredges and side-casting dredges are the only ones that are seagoing.
The transportation of other types of dredges to the area of operations can be difficult, and they must be towed
to the site or assembled from components transported aboard cargo ships.
5-72. It may also be difficult to provide adequate security for dredges during seize the initiative or dominate
phases of operations. The routine patterns followed by dredges greatly limit the effectiveness of any passive
defense measures. Pipeline dredges are virtually stationary targets. The availability of dredges and crews for
use in the early stages of deployment in an area of operations can also be a major problem. The Army has no
trained military dredge crews or portable dredges that are suitable for use in an area of operations. USACE
does possess dredges and trained crews, but the availability of these is not certain and must be planned for
and requested well in advance.
5-73. Sweeping, covered in TM 3-34.55, is a method of locating pinnacles or other obstructions that limit
the accessibility of some ships to use the area. Sweeping is always used as a final check after dredging. When
feasible, obstructions may be partially removed by explosives or other methods to allow unfettered access. If
a sufficient operating area with adequate water depths is available, hazards may be properly marked with the
appropriate use of lights and other signals placed on or near structures, sunken vessels, and other obstructions
for the protection of vessels navigating inside the seaport.

PIER AND CAUSEWAY CONSTRUCTION
5-74. TM 3-34.72 and TM 3-34.73 provide data on the types and use of pile material in the construction of
piers and causeways. Piers and causeways allow cargo vessels direct beach access, thus eliminating the
multiple handling of material and speeding unloading times. Piers are structures with working surfaces that
are raised above the water on piles. Piers on open coasts typically project beyond the surf zone. The primary
advantage of piers is the stability afforded by having working surfaces above the influence of wave attack,
which permits consistent unloading at times when intensive wave action would otherwise prevent or inhibit
landing craft from directly accessing a bare-beach site.
5-75. The sectionalized floating pier is a self-contained pier that can be brought to the LOTS site and
emplaced in a comparatively short time. Specially trained engineer personnel from Army horizontal and
vertical units can support the installation of this equipment. Army modular causeway units include organic
equipment and forces to assemble floating modular causeway placement (see TM 3-34.73).
5-76. Other engineer assistance is required at the beach end of the pier to prepare the beach and anchor the
pier. Causeways are floating structures, which project out from the beach. In some applications, they are used
as rafts to ferry equipment from ship to shore. Causeways are more susceptible to intense wave action than
are piers, but they are much more easily deployed. In areas where wave action is not a significant problem,
causeways can be used as floating piers. Engineers provide beach preparation and anchoring for causeways.

ROAD CONSTRUCTION
5-77. Seaport road construction supports the LOTS site layout, road network within the port, and roads
connecting the port to the transportation network. The major engineer effort in LOTS is invested in road
construction and maintenance. Considerable effort must be spent to adequately stabilize soil conditions to
ensure a suitable foundation and improve trafficability in the beach area. Constructed roads must withstand
the large volume and impact of material-handling equipment carrying extremely heavy loads. Roads that
support LOTS are usually constructed in a loop to reduce their required width, eliminate vehicle turning as
much as possible, and prevent vehicle congestion.

5-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
5-78. Ports are operated by Army transportation units or Naval Expeditionary Combat Command Forces.
Operation units perform maintenance within their capabilities. General engineer units perform port
maintenance and repair within their capabilities. Maintenance involves routine engineering efforts to keep
port facilities in good working order and service. Repair involves the correction of critical defects to restore
damaged facilities to operational service. The repair and maintenance of conventional and expedient
construction could include emergency repair, major repair, rehabilitation of breakwater structures, and
expedients. See TM 3-34.73 and TM 5-622/NAVY MO-104/AFM 91-34 for additional information on port
maintenance.

MAINTENANCE
5-79. Routine maintenance is essential to allow the port to continue its functionality and good service.
Inspections are scheduled to review maintenance service records and conduct physical inspections of port
infrastructure and individual facilities. This includes underwater inspections and assessments of port facilities
with the use of dive teams. Based on the inspections, repairs are scheduled and repair parts/materials are
ordered.

EMERGENCY REPAIR
5-80. Emergency repair is immediate work required to repair storm, accident, or other damage to prevent
additional losses and larger repairs. Emergency repairs include—
 Repairs to breached breakwaters to prevent further damage to harbor installations.
 Repairs of wharf damage caused by ships, storms, or enemy action to restore structural strength.
 Adding rock to control foundation scour or breach erosion.

MAJOR REPAIR
5-81. Major repair is required when there is significant damage to the port facilities that requires replacement
work or rebuilding. This includes—
 Replacing wharf decks.
 Resurfacing access roads and earth-filled quays.
 Replacing wharf bracings and anchorages that have been destroyed by decay or erosion.
 Replacing entire spud barge pier, spud, or other major barge pier accessories.

EXPEDIENT REPAIR
5-82. The use of expedient repair methods should be encouraged during limited port operations while major
repair and rehabilitation go forward (see TM 3-34.73).
5-83. Possible measures to speed repairs are as follows:
 Use launches or tugboats with a line to the shore for various hauling and hoisting functions in
construction work at the waterfront.
 Erect a derrick or install a crawler or truck-mounted crane on a regular barge, a mechanized
landing craft, a barge of pontoon cubes, or a barge fabricated for military floating bridge units.
 Fabricate rafts for pile bent bracing from oil drums, heavy timbers, spare piles, or local material.
 Improvise floating dry docks for small craft from Navy pontoons.
 Improvise light barges, floating wharf approaches, and small floating wharves from steel oil
drums.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-13

Chapter 5



















Lay diagonal flooring over existing decking to strengthen a structure by distributing the load over
more stringers.
Remove the decking to add stringers, or place smaller stringers on the pile cap between existing
stringers from beneath the decking and wedged tight against the deck.
Drive the piles through the hole, move several floor planks, and then cap new pile bents and wedge
them tight against the stringers. (This can only be done if the wharf can support the weight of the
pile driver.)
Use a rock- or ballast-filled timber crib to replace a gap in a pile wharf structure or to extend the
offshore end on the wharf. The timber crib may be built on land, launched by using log rollers,
floated into position, and filled with rock or ballast to hold it in place.
Use standard military floating bridges or Navy pontoons to supplement or temporarily replace
damaged causeways.
Use standard military floating bridges or Navy pontoons to provide access between undamaged
sections of off-loading piers.
Restore the face of the wharf first if a section of a wharf has been destroyed so that ships may be
worked while the area behind the face is being restored.
Use the shore end of a pier for lighters or other short vessels while the pier is being extended.
Use standard or nonstandard fixed bridging to bridge part of a solid-fill wharf (see
TM 3-34.22/MCRP 3-34A.2 [MCRP 3-17.1B]).
Use camels, barges, or other devices to block slips that are filled with rubble. This prevents ships
from being brought to the face of the wharf and allows them to be retained in deep water for
unloading. Alternatively, it may be possible to use standard trestles, fixed bridging, and assembled
Navy pontoons to extend the width of the pier.
Use the hull of a capsized or sunken vessel as the substructure for a pier.
Anchor the shore end of a causeway constructed from Navy pontoon cubes onshore by excavating
a section of beach, floating the pontoons into the temporary inlet thus made, and then backfilling
to provide a solid anchorage.
Use field-expedient matting.

REHABILITATION OF BREAKWATER STRUCTURES
5-84. Breakwaters are used to protect a harbor, anchorage, basin, or area of shoreline from waves.
Breakwaters reflect or dissipate wave energy and thus prevent or reduce wave action in the protected area.
These structures must be designed to effectively serve competing requirements for wave blockage and safe
vessel passage from fully exposed waters through a constricted entrance into tranquil harbor waters.
5-85. Breakwaters are often constructed as shore-connected structures, thereby allowing access from land
for construction, operation, and maintenance. However, this design may have an adverse impact on water
quality or sediment transport, so detached offshore breakwaters are used in certain situations. Many systems
utilize a combination of shore-connected and offshore breakwaters to protect anchorage or mooring areas.
5-86. It is preferable for breakwaters to prevent wave energy from entering a harbor rather than try to
dissipate excessive wave energy inside the harbor. It is also important that breakwaters be constructed to
limit wave reflection, which can cause hazardous navigation conditions.
5-87. Most breakwaters built on the open coasts of the United States consist of rubble-mound construction.
Other structural types include concrete caisson, timber crib, sheet pile, composite, and floating. All
breakwaters must be high enough to prevent excessive wave overtopping and sufficiently impermeable to
deter wave transmission through the structure.

5-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Seaports

5-88. Breakwaters are subject to damage and overtopping by large storms, which can lead to extensive
damage to protected port facilities, infilling of channels, and significant reductions of navigation channel
availability. Therefore, the repair of breakwaters and similar structures is required to protect the structural
integrity of the port from intensive wave action; prevent harbor erosion; and allow safe navigation, harborage,
and port activities. Breached breakwater structures are repaired by placing individual rocks or engineered
concrete armor in interconnecting mounds. The stone rubble is placed in graded layers to provide filtering
and limit wave penetration through the porous structure. Armor size is engineered and depends on the wave
and water level climate. Breakwater layout can be parallel, perpendicular, or at any angle to the coast,
depending on what will maintain tranquil harbor conditions. In situations where large rock is not available,
artificial rubble and protective armor units may be fabricated relatively close by and delivered to the site for
emplacement.

MARSHALING AREAS
5-89. Marshaling areas serve as centralized collection points at which unloaded materials and equipment can
be temporarily stored while awaiting distribution to the proper units. The size of the marshaling area varies
with the size and type of shipping, the unloading rate, the exposure to hostilities, and the units being
supported. Marshaling areas are tailored to specific operations and can need as much as 500 acres for largescale combat operations (see ATP 4-13 for layout information).
5-90. In hostile environments, marshaling areas are dispersed, with acreage divided into many small parcels.
Other protection considerations must be integrated into the design of marshaling areas as well. See
ATP 4-13 for specific details on planning, constructing, organizing, managing, and maintaining marshaling
areas.
5-91. Marshaling area surfaces and foundations must be sufficiently stable to support a fully loaded piece of
material-handling equipment that weighs up to 100,000 pounds. Access and egress roads must be capable of
supporting the same loads. The surface must be protected with adequate drainage.
5-92. International Standards Organization container collection areas must be planned and provided. These
areas must have the same trafficability, drainage, and access/egress characteristics as the marshaling areas
and can require nearly as much space. Most material shipped to a JOA via surface transportation is
containerized. Once ashore, the containers are opened and unpacked for distribution to the intended units.
Empty containers are collected and reloaded aboard ships and then returned to their point of origin. See
ATP 4-12 and JP 4-09 for information on container requirements, operations, and management.

AMMUNITION STORAGE AREAS
5-93. Areas in which ammunition is to be unloaded, sorted, and temporarily stored require the same type of
planning and engineer effort as marshaling areas. In addition, engineer units will have to perform additional
horizontal construction work by making earthen berms and revetments. Ammunition supply points that will
be used for an extended time must be provided with overhead protection from the elements. See
ATP 4-35.1 for site layout information.
5-94. Ammunition storage areas must be remote from other activities on the beach. They must be dispersed,
concealed, and camouflaged. Each site requires access and egress routes, preferably arranged so that vehicles
do not back up and block the traffic flow. See ATP 4-35 and ATP 4-35.1 for additional information.

PETROLEUM, OIL, AND LUBRICANTS STORAGE AREAS
5-95. Fuel storage areas on the beach will likely be the largest concentration of fuels in the distribution
system. Although not a general engineering task, Army engineers may be required to assist the Quartermaster
Corps by constructing rigid storage tanks of sufficient size, building a distribution network of pipelines,
installing collapsible tank farms, or constructing related facilities.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

5-15

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 6

Airfields and Heliports
Airpower affords great flexibility because aircraft can travel great distances quickly
while performing a wide variety of missions. Military aircraft can conduct ISR, attack,
and transport missions within an AOR or across the globe. Infrastructure, such as
airfields and heliports, are essential to support the projection of military airpower
where and when needed. This chapter focuses on the planning, design, construction,
and O&M of airfields and heliports.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
6-1. Airfields and heliports are considered a mobility engineer function. Army, Marine Corps, Navy, and
Air Force engineers have the capability to plan, design, construct, repair, and maintain airfields and heliports.
Due to the resources required to construct a new airfield/heliport, seizing or using an existing airfield/heliport
is preferred. Airfields seized or recovered may require repairs to restore them to their full capacity/capability.
Because airfields are vital to the execution of combat operations, the enemy can be expected to attack them.
To account for this, units capable of conducting airfield damage repair (ADR) and obtaining ADR materials
should be located at operational airfields/heliports. All Services have the capability to conduct ADR and may
be called on to assist in operations. See JP 3-34 for additional information on Service capabilities. See
DODD 4270.5 for specific information on the repair responsibilities of each Service.

ARMY
6-2. Army engineers may be tasked to support initial ADR or rapid runway repair as part of a forcible-entry
operation as outlined in AFPAM 10-219 V5; DODD 4270.5; JP 3-34; TM 3-34.48-1; and
TSPWG Manual 3-270-01.3-270-07. Forward aviation combat engineering is performed by combat
engineers to enhance mobility. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for a further discussion of forward aviation
combat engineering.
6-3. Forward aviation combat engineers prepare or repair expedient landing zones, forward arming and
refueling points, landing strips, or other aviation support sites in the forward combat area. These are
considered combat engineering tasks and are focused on providing support to tactical combat maneuver
forces. All other airfield and heliport planning, design, and construction tasks are considered general
engineering tasks. Army engineers may assist other engineers, as directed, in airfield and heliport assessment,
planning, design, construction, repair, and maintenance. See GTA 90-01-045, TM 3-34.48-1, TM 3-34.48-2,
and UFC 3-260-01.

MARINE CORPS
6-4. Marine Corps engineers, as part of the engineer support battalion, also have organic horizontal assets
for expedient airfield construction and repair. The Marine wing support squadron has primary responsibility
for expedient airfield construction and repair. Although it is a secondary mission, Marine engineers can
construct expedient airstrips and landing zones. They can also clear helicopter landing zones; conduct air
base damage repair, improve and sustain airfields; conduct rapid runway repair; and build, improve, and
sustain expeditionary airfields. See MCTP 3-20.B for additional information.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-1

Chapter 6

NAVY
6-5. The naval mobile construction battalion (Seabees) capabilities include organic horizontal assets to
construct and repair airfields. The construction of expedient airfields (matting) is part of their role in
facilitating the landing and movement of troops, equipment, and supplies from the beachhead. As a general
engineering task, Seabees repair and improve bare-base existing airfields and can conduct expedient airfield
damage repair in support of distributed maritime operations. See JP 3-34 and NWP 4-04 for additional
information.

AIR FORCE
6-6. Due to their specialized expertise, Air Force engineers take the lead to open, establish, and sustain
airfields that support large and high-performance aircraft at locations where Air Force aircraft operate. See
JP 3-34 for a further description of Air Force capabilities.
6-7. Air Force engineers are organized into the prime base engineer emergency force (Prime BEEF) and
the rapid engineer deployable heavy operational repair squadron engineer (RED HORSE) units. The Prime
BEEF provides rapid-response civil engineer capabilities, which include airfield construction, repair, and
maintenance. The RED HORSE is a self-sufficient, mobile heavy construction unit capable of rapid response
and independent operations, to include heavy repair and construction capabilities when the requirements
exceed Prime BEEF capabilities. See Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34 for more information.
6-8. Air Force engineers are responsible for establishing air bases to support the projection of airpower. As
such, the Air Force is responsible for the emergency repair of established air bases (see Air Force Doctrine
Publication 3-34). This includes the emergency repair of air base paved surfaces, which is called rapid runway
repair. When Air Force engineering capabilities are exceeded, the Army provides construction support (see
JP 3-34).
6-9. The preponderance of work may be performed by Army engineers due to the availability of general
engineer assets and, in some cases, it may be preferable for Army (or other Service) engineers to take the
lead in supporting airfield operation. Army engineer support to Air Force-controlled airfields is as follows:
 Develops engineering design criteria, standard plans, and material to meet Air Force requirements.
 Performs the reconnaissance, survey, design, construction, or improvement of airfields, roads,
utilities, and structures.
 Repairs Air Force bases and facilities beyond the immediate emergency recovery requirements of
the Air Force (semipermanent and permanent repair).
 Supplies construction materials and equipment.
 Assists in the emergency repair of war-damaged air bases.
 Assists in providing expedient facilities (force bed-down).
 Manages war damage repair and base development.
 Supervises Army personnel. (The Air Force base commander sets priorities.)
 Performs emergency and permanent repair of war damage to forward tactical airlift support.

SERVICE RESPONSIBILITY
6-10. The branch of Service that is the primary user of the airfield or heliport has the responsibility for
certifying that facility for flight control. In most cases during airfield contingency operations, this is an Air
Force responsibility. Air Force engineers may assist Army engineers, Navy Seabees, or Marine Corps
engineers, as directed, in airfield and heliport planning, design, construction, repair, and maintenance. See
Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34.
6-11. The Air Force provides the following engineer support:
 Performs the primary emergency repair of war damage to air bases and other ADR tasks.
 Constructs expedient facilities for Air Force units and weapon systems. (This excludes the
responsibility for Army base development.)
 Operates and maintains Air Force facilities.

6-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports









Performs maintenance tasks.
Provides crash rescue and fire suppression.
Provides HAZMAT response.
Manages the emergency repair of war damage and force bed-down construction.
Provides infrastructure support for the disposal of solid and hazardous waste.
Supplies resources for its own engineering mission.
Provides the EBS and OESHA for the airfield and its support facilities.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
6-12. Airfield planning requires airfield reconnaissance and an understanding of the airfield types and
classifications. Airfield design includes design considerations, geometric design, pavement structure design,
drainage system design, support facility design, protection design, and special airfield designs discussed in
this chapter.

AIRFIELD PLANNING
6-13. Engineers are responsible for airfield planning. This includes conducting site reconnaissance, making
recommendations, designing the airfield or heliport, and conducting the actual construction of the individual
airfield. Airfield and heliport planning and design include the runway or helipad and the supporting facilities.
The planning and design may include conceptual planning to support aircraft bed-down, evaluation to
rehabilitate or upgrade existing facilities, site adaption of existing standard designs, preliminary plans and
designs, detailed plans and designs, and project management planning. Key planning actions include site
selection, designation of controlling aircraft, construction standards (airfield and support facilities), and
estimation of required construction effort.
6-14. Airfield designs may be provided by one of the Services obtained from JCMS,
TSPWG M 3-270-01.3-270-07, and UFC 3-260-01; developed by engineers using manual procedures
discussed in TM 3-34.48-1 or TM 3-34.48-2; or developed by engineers using computer-aided processes.
The JCMS provides information on how to obtain detailed standard designs for the airfield type and capacity.
However, the planner may need to alter and adapt the designs to meet time and material restrictions, or the
limitations imposed by local topography, area, or obstruction characteristics. Engineers may alter designs,
but they must obtain approval from the user for major changes before starting work.
6-15. Early in the planning process, operations, logistics, and engineer planners should identify potential
forward airfields to support offensive air operations and logistics buildup and outline the engineer tasks
required to open the airfields. It is critical that joint engineers ensure early and effective coordination between
airfield planners and the commands that will operate aircraft at the airfields. Many of the decisions made
early in the planning process can have a critical impact on an airfield utility for aircraft (see JP 3-34).
6-16. Most planning factors for road designs are also applicable for airfields. The most important factors for
engineer planners include the mission variables plus several other categories:
 Mission. Airfield design relies on operational considerations, including the number, type, model,
and series of aircraft expected to be assigned to the airfield, the desired sortie rate, and the airfield
purpose (fighter base, unmanned aircraft system reconnaissance, transportation hub, or a
combination).
 Enemy. Devise an adequate plan to ensure that construction troops can protect themselves,
equipment, and materials against harassment and sabotage during airfield or heliport construction.
Consider requirements for additional security forces. Design will also account for enemy weapons
that can be employed against the airfield to damage critical facilities, destroy aircraft and supplies,
and kill personnel.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-3

Chapter 6










6-4

Terrain and weather. Within mission and operational requirements, establish reasonable site
requirements for each airfield type. Choose geographic locations based on topographic features
(grading, drainage, and hydrology), soils, vegetation, utilities, climatic conditions, and
accessibility of materials. Accurate airfield design requires a topographic survey with minimum
5-foot contour intervals. Other site characteristics to be studied include forecasted weather effects
(such as temperature, barometric pressure, precipitation, seasonal weather variations, and wind
speed and direction) and flight path obstacles. Evaluate all existing transport facilities to determine
the best methods and routes to logistically support the project. These include ports, rail lines, road
nets, and other nearby airfields that might be used for assembling construction equipment and
materials and moving them to the construction site.
Troops and support available. Evaluate the availability and type of engineer construction forces
to determine if construction capability is sufficient to carry out the required airfield construction.
Weigh the type and availability of local construction materials against the overall needs for
proposed construction. Consider examining naturally occurring materials and other possible
sources of materials for subgrade strengthening. Requirements for importing special materials for
surfacing, drainage, and dust control must be feasible for available construction time and
resources. Have a working knowledge of forces dedicated to ADR. Depending on the base
location, local agreements, and the overall military situation, any combination of Army, Air Force,
HN, or contract engineer support may be possible. Consider time-phased force and deployment
data or population flow into the airfield when developing the airfield master plan.
Time available. Operational and mission requirements dictate when airfields are needed to
support aviation operations.
Civil considerations. Consider what civilian construction resources are available in the local area
and what structures already exist that could be used to support airfield construction, repair, and
maintenance. Consider the environmental impact, restricted areas, political and cultural factors,
and other factors that could impact airfield layout and construction.
Maximum [aircraft] on ground (MOG). MOG is the maximum number of aircraft that can be
accommodated on an airfield. MOG is normally expressed in terms of C-17s. A minimum of MOG
2 is desired for contingency airfields. (Refer to AFPAM 10-1403 for aircraft dimensions.) The
types of MOG include the—
 Working MOG. The maximum number of aircraft at a given location that can be
simultaneously quick-turned within the standards published in AFPAM10-1403. Working
MOG is the most restrictive of active passenger MOG, fueling MOG, maintenance MOG,
operating MOG, and parking MOG.
 Passenger service MOG. The number of high-reach/wide-body aircraft that can be serviced
simultaneously with passenger service based on complete download and upload requirements.
The figure is based on 24-hour sustained capability, high-reach/wide-body, quick-turn ground
times.
 Fleet service MOG. The number of aircraft that can be serviced simultaneously with fleet
service. The figure is based on 24-hour sustained capability.
 Cargo MOG. The number of high-reach/wide-body aircraft that can be serviced
simultaneously with cargo loading operations based on complete cargo download and upload
requirements. The figure is based on 24-hour sustained capability, high-reach/wide-body,
quick-turn ground times.
 Fueling MOG. The number of aircraft that can be simultaneously refueled given the use of
fuel hydrants and/or fuel trucks, the manpower to operate them, and the capacity of the
system.
 Maintenance MOG. The number of aircraft that can be simultaneously ground-handled for
standard maintenance items during a quick turn/remain overnight. Standard maintenance
items include: launch/recovery, servicing, inspections, debrief, minor maintenance, and forms
management (requires 3 qualified aircraft maintenance personnel per transient aircraft).

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports







Operating MOG. The maximum number of aircraft (operating under or supporting U.S.
missions) permitted at a location, restricted by: HN restrictions, diplomatic clearances, aircraft
rescue and firefighting, slot times, air traffic control restrictions, or other items not directly
related to the airfield infrastructure or aircraft servicing capability.
Parking MOG. The physical parking spaces available for DOD airlift aircraft and/or contract
carriers. It should not exceed the number of spots identified on the most current parking plan
and may be limited by factors such as an HN agreement, hazardous parking spots available,
or other infrastructure limitations. It should be expressed in two exclusive numbers—widebody (C-17 equivalent) MOG and narrow-body (C-130 equivalent) MOG. Airfield managers
may identify a contingency parking MOG (number of aircraft that could be parked on the
airfield in the event of contingency operations). A contingency parking MOG will always
equal or exceed the standard parking MOG.
Active passenger MOG. The most restrictive of passenger MOG, fleet service MOG, and
cargo MOG.

Airfield Reconnaissance
6-17. Airfield reconnaissance differs from road reconnaissance in that more comprehensive information is
typically required. An airfield project involves more effort in labor hours, machine hours, and material than
road projects. Air traffic also imposes stricter requirements on traffic facilities than does vehicular traffic.
Consequently, the site selected has to be the best available.
6-18. When new construction is undertaken, the planner and the reconnaissance team must choose a site with
soil characteristics that meet strength and stability requirements or a site that requires minimum construction
effort to attain those standards. Airfields present more drainage problems than roads. Their wide, paved areas
demand that water be diverted completely around the field or that long drainage structures be built. Sites at
the low point of valleys or other depressed areas should be avoided because they tend to be focal points for
water collection. As in road construction, subsurface water should be avoided. A desirable airfield site lies
across a long, gentle slope because it is relatively easy to divert water around the finished installation. See
TM 5-820-1/AFM 88-5 for information on drainage and erosion control for airfields and heliports.
6-19. Airfield reconnaissance must consider the quality and quantity of land available. To accommodate
missions efficiently, airfields require large areas of relatively flat land. Advance location and layout planning
will avoid the overcrowding of facilities. To obtain the required area, the airfield may have to be spread over
a large area. This may call for a complex network of taxiways and service roads. Runways should be aligned
in the direction of the prevailing wind.
6-20. Airfield reconnaissance must consider elevation and the obstacles obstructing aircraft approaches. The
safe operation of fixed- or rotary-wing aircraft requires that all obstacles above elevations specified by design
criteria be removed. These criteria vary according to the operating characteristics of the aircraft that use the
airfield. For example, most heliports require an approach zone with a 10:1 glide angle, whereas heavy cargo
aircraft in the rear area require a glide angle as flat as 50:1. To achieve the right glide angle, it is often
necessary to remove hills and do major earthwork on distant approaches to the airfield proper. The
reconnaissance team should avoid locations requiring extensive earthwork to achieve the necessary glide
angle. Clearances are also required along the sides of runways, taxiways, and parking aprons. An area of
specified width must be cleared of all obstacles and graded according to specifications.

Airfield Types and Classifications
6-21. There are three types of airfields and heliports:
 Initial (drop zones, extraction points, expedient airfields).
 Temporary (sustained for use 6 to 24 months and include a higher standard of construction).
 Semipermanent (have highest standards of construction and are located in rear areas and used by
all mission aircraft).
Note. See TM 3-34.48-2 for additional information on the types of airfields and heliports.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-5

Chapter 6

6-22. Classifying runways in terms of their length is still common among military planners. Typical runway
lengths are 2,000, 2,500, 3,000, 3,500, 6,000, and 10,000 feet. A controlling aircraft or combination of
controlling aircraft has been designated for each category to establish limiting airfield geometric and surface
strength requirements. Pavement structures are classified as rigid (Portland cement) or flexible (surfaced or
unsurfaced). Runways are classified as follows:
 Class A runways are primarily intended for small, light aircraft. These runways do not have the
potential of a foreseeable requirement for development for use by high-performance and large,
heavy aircraft (see UFC 3-260-01).
 Class B runways are primarily intended for high-performance and large, heavy aircraft
(see UFC 3-260-01).
6-23. Army airfields and heliports are divided into six classes:
 Class I. Helipads and heliports (Type B) with aircraft 25,000 pounds (11,340 kilograms) or less.
The controlling aircraft is a UH-60 aircraft at a 16,300-pound (7,395-kilogram) operational
weight.
 Class II. Helipads and heliports (Type B) with aircraft over 25,000 pounds (11,340 kilograms).
The controlling aircraft is a CH-47 aircraft at a 50,000-pound (22,680-kilogram) operational
weight.
 Class III. Airfields with three traffic areas (Type A, B, and C). The controlling aircraft
combination is a C-23 aircraft at a 24,600-pound (11,200-kilogram) operational weight and a
CH-47 aircraft at a 50,000-pound (22,680-kilogram) operational weight. Class A runways are
primarily intended for small aircraft, such as C-12s and C-23s.
 Class IV. Airfields with Class B runways. The controlling aircraft is a C-130 aircraft at a
155,000-pound (70,310-kilogram) operational weight or a C-17 aircraft at a 580,000-pound
(263,100-kilogram) operational weight. Class B runways are primarily intended for
high-performance and large, heavy aircraft, such as C-130s and C-17s.
 Class V. Contingency heliports or helipads (Type B) contingency supporting Army assault
training missions. The controlling aircraft is the CH-47 aircraft at a 50,000-pound
(22,680-kilogram) operational weight.
 Class VI. Assault landing zones for contingency airfields or airstrips (Type A) supporting Army
missions that have semiprepared or paved surfaces. The controlling aircraft is the
C-130 aircraft at a 155,000-pound (70,310-kilogram) operational weight or the C-17 aircraft at a
580,000-pound (263,100-kilogram) operational weight.
Note. See UFC 3-260-02 for additional information on the classes of airfields and heliports.
6-24. Air Force airfields are classified into one of six types based on their airfield mission and operational
procedures. A controlling aircraft or combination of controlling aircraft has been designated for each type to
establish limiting airfield geometric and surface strength requirements. These airfield types include—
 Light—F-15 and C-17.
 Medium—F-15, C-17, and B-52.
 Heavy—F-15, C-5, and B-52.
 Modified Heavy—F-15, C-17, and B-1.
 Auxiliary—F-15.
 Assault Landing Zone—C-130 and C-17.
Note. See UFC 3-260-02 for additional information.
6-25. A bare-base airfield has the minimum essentials to house, sustain, and support operations and can
include a stabilized runway, taxiways, and aircraft parking areas. A bare base must have a source of water
that can be made potable. Other requirements to operate under bare-base conditions form a necessary part of
the force package deployed to the bare base. See Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34 and JP 3-05.

6-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports

6-26. The airfield must be capable of supporting assigned aircraft and providing other mission-essential
resources, such as a logistics support and services infrastructure composed of people, facilities, equipment,
and supplies. This concept requires modular, mobile facilities; utilities; and support equipment packages that
can be rapidly deployed and installed. A bare-base airfield forms the baseline for contingency operations
airfield planning (see TM 3-34.48-1 and TM 3-34.48-2 for additional information).
6-27. Preplanned design layouts within JCMS for each type of field are based on the assumption that
previously unoccupied sites will be chosen. However, the layouts have been coordinated so that, within
terrain limitations, it is practicable to develop a larger field from a smaller one with minimal construction
effort. An existing airfield or a bare-base site can be used if it meets minimum requirements or can be
upgraded to meet operational or mission requirements.
6-28. The Air Force issues Engineering Technical Letters (ETL) to provide engineers with criteria and
guidance for the design, construction, maintenance, and evaluation of airfields and other support facilities.
Many ETL’s have been revised and converted into UFC. ETLs are available at the Whole Building Design
Guide ETL website.

AIRFIELD DESIGN
6-29. There are a variety of airfield designs that must be considered by the engineer. There are design
processes and steps that can be applied. These airfield designs include geometric, pavement, drainage,
support facility, protection, and special.
6-30. Airfield design steps include the following:
 Select the runway location.
 Determine the runway length and width.
 Calculate approach zones.
 Determine the runway orientation based on the wind rose, which statistically quantifies prevailing
winds.
 Plot the centerline on graph paper, design the vertical alignment, and plot the newly designed
airfield on the plan and profile.
 Design the transverse slopes.
 Design taxiways and aprons.
 Select visual and nonvisual aids to navigation.
 Design logistics support facilities.
 Design aircraft protection facilities.

Geometric Design
6-31. Airfield geometric design consists of meeting the minimum geometric requirements for the elements
that compose the airfield—runway, overrun, taxiway, apron, shoulders, graded area, transitional area, runway
end clear zone, turnarounds (hammer heads), imaginary surfaces (approach-departure clearance surface), and
accident potential zones.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.48-1 and TM 3-34.48-2 for information on the geometric design requirements for
each airfield type.
2. See UFC 3-260-01 for information on C-130 and C-17 airfield dimensional criteria.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-7

Chapter 6

Pavement Structure Design
6-32. The pavement structure designs for airfields are similar to the pavement structure designs for roads.
The same structural principles apply. The design of airfield pavement structure is also called the thickness
design procedure because the design determines the total thickness and cover requirements for each layer.
Several pavement type designs are possible for a specific site. The designer provides analysis to recommend
the most economical design that meets operational requirements and site conditions.
6-33. There are four categories of airfield surfaces:
 Expedient-surfaced (unsurfaced and surfaced).
 Aggregate-surfaced.
 Flexible pavement.
 Rigid pavement.
6-34. There are four types of airfield pavement system surface structures above the subgrade. They are—
 Semiprepared airfield (unsurfaced, in-place soils or improved subgrade or surfaced, membranesurfaced, and mat-surfaced).
 Semiprepared airfield (aggregate-surfaced layered structure over compacted subgrade).
 Surfaced airfield (flexible pavement or bituminous pavement).
 Surfaced airfield (rigid pavement).
6-35. On operational airfields, pavements are grouped into four traffic types based on their intended use and
design load. These types include—
 Type A. Those traffic areas that receive concentrated traffic and the full design weight of the
aircraft. These traffic areas require a greater pavement thickness than other areas on the airfield
and include all airfield runways and, in most cases, runway ends and primary taxiways. All airfield
pavement structures on contingency operations airfields are considered Type A traffic areas.
 Type B. Those traffic areas that receive a more even traffic flow and the full design weight of the
aircraft. These traffic areas include parking aprons, pads, and hardstands.
 Type C. Those traffic areas with a low volume of traffic or those where the applied weight of the
operating aircraft is generally less than the design weight (use 75 percent of the design weight of
aircraft to determine the applied weight). These traffic areas include secondary taxiways, washrack
pavements, access aprons, interior portions of runways, and hangar floor areas trafficked by
aircraft.
 Type D. Those traffic areas with an extremely low volume of traffic or those where the applied
weight of the operating aircraft is considerably lower than the design weight (use 75 percent of
the design weight of aircraft to determine the applied weight).
Notes.
1. See UFC 3-260-02 for additional information.
2. See ETL 97-9 and UFC 3-260-02 for information on the strength and thickness of pavement
and structural evaluation criteria of semiprepared and matted airfields for the C-17.
6-36. There are several types of bituminous pavement; however, flexible-pavement airfields usually have an
asphalt concrete wear surface. The frost filter layer to prevent pavement heaving and thermal cracks is more
common in airfield construction than in roads.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.63 and UFC 3-260-02 for a discussion on the design of pavements for frost action.
2. See TM 3-34.63 for structural design and pavement specifications.
3. See UFC 3-260-03 for pavement evaluations.

6-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports

Drainage System Design
6-37. Drainage system designs are similar to road and railroad designs and are discussed in TM 3-34.48-1.

Support Facility Design
6-38. Airfield and heliport base development planning and support facility planning, design, and
construction are similar to the procedures used for base camp and bed-down facilities. Facilities may include
access and service roads, storage areas, navigation aids, hardstands, maintenance aprons, warm-up aprons,
corrosion control facilities, control towers, airfield lighting, and fortifications for parked aircraft.
6-39. The design of support facilities should be based on the number and type of other organizations
collocated on, or supported by, the airfield. The base camp technique of using a design population can help
properly design the airfield support facilities and services. Considerations for airfield or heliport
development, master planning, facility siting, and layout planning include—
 Airfield location.
 Functional effectiveness and efficiency, sustainability, resiliency, security, expandability, and ease
of construction.
 Layout space for land use functions and relationships, facilities, separation distances, accesses,
protection methods, and expansion procedures.
 Adequate drainage.
 Environmental considerations.
6-40. An airfield consists of seven categories of facilities:
 Category 1. Airfield (runways, taxiways, hardstands, aprons, and other pavements; shoulders;
overrun; approach zones; air traffic control landing systems; and design related facilities [access
and service roads; ammunition and petroleum, oils, and lubricant storage areas; arresting systems;
airfield marking and lighting; corrosion control facilities; fixed control towers; and other support
facilities]).
 Category 2. Sanitary facilities (kitchens, dining areas, showers, and latrines).
 Category 3. Direct operational support facilities (munitions, aviation fuels and lubricants,
HAZMAT, and waste storage sites).
 Category 4. Maintenance, operations, and supply (aircraft maintenance, base shops, operations
buildings, base communications, photography labs, fire stations, weather facilities, general
storage, and medical facilities).
 Category 5. Indirect operational support facilities (roads and exterior utilities, such as water
supply and electric power systems).
 Category 6. Administration (headquarters, personnel services, recreation, and welfare facilities).
 Category 7. General housing and troop quarters.

Protection Design
6-41. The planning and design of protective measures and structures on airfields and heliports are based on
the evaluation of the threat.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.48-2, for information on fortifications for parked Army aircraft.
2. See ADP 3-37 and ATP 3-39.32 for information on force protection measures.
3. See ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C for information on survivability (hardening) support, including
the construction of revetments for helicopters.
4. See AFMAN 91-201 for information on Air Force aircraft survivability.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-9

Chapter 6

Special Designs
6-42. Special airfields include—
 Drop zones.
 Extraction zones.
 Special operations forces airfields.
 Blacked-out airfields.
 Airfields for unmanned aircraft systems.
6-43. New construction for some unmanned aircraft systems should only be required when they are operated
from a location without a paved road or an existing runway. To support mobile, unmanned aircraft systems,
most unmanned aircraft system airfields are constructed with matting. Unmanned aircraft system operators
must provide runway design criteria for systems that do not have standard designs already developed (see
UFC 3-260-01 for additional information).
6-44. It may be required to build airfields and heliports in arctic and subarctic conditions (see
TM 5-852-1/AFR 88-19, Volume 1; TM 5-852-2/AFR 88-19, Volume 2; TM 5-852-4/AFM 88-19, chapter
4; TM 5-852-5/AFR 88-19, Volume 5; TM 5-852-6/AFR 88-19, Volume 6; and TM 5-852-3 for more
information).

HELIPORTS
6-45. There are four levels of heliport development: landing zones of opportunity, austere forward area
fields, substandard but operational support area fields, and deliberate rear area fields (see
TM 3-34.48-2). The geometric design requirements for helicopter landing areas can be simplified into four
types:
 Helipads.
 Heliports with taxi hover lanes.
 Heliports with runways.
 Mixed battalion heliports.
6-46. The design of a pavement structure for a heliport or helipad is similar to the pavement structure design
for airfields. The three types of heliport and helipad pavement structures include—
 Unsurfaced.
 Surfaced (membrane-surfaced or mat-surfaced design).
 Flexible pavement (thickness design procedure).
6-47. For additional airfield and heliport planning and design information, see the following sources:
 AFCS (practically applied through the JCMS system).
 ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A.
 TM 3-34.48-1.
 TM 3-34.48-2.
 UFC 3-260-01.
 UFC 3-260-02.
 UFC 3-260-17.
 UFC 4-141-10.
6-48. Reachback resources include the—
 USACE Reachback Operations Center website .
 Transportation Systems Center website.

6-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports

CONSTRUCTION
6-49. TM 3-34.48-2 provides a complete discussion of airfield and heliport construction. The construction
directive usually provides the airfield and heliport geometric design, pavement structure design, and drainage
system design. The constructing unit may site-adapt the designs to local conditions. Airfield and heliport
construction planning tasks to determine earthwork quantities, material, equipment, personnel, quality
control, and environmental requirements are similar to those for roads and railroads.

CONSTRUCTION ESTIMATES
6-50. Developing an accurate construction estimate can be difficult, and each project must be considered on
a case-by-case basis. A reasonable estimate of construction effort and time required can be made after
thorough research and planning. Engineers estimate the construction of airfields and heliports based on the
following key factors:
 Volume of earthwork required.
 Difficulties of grading and constructing.
 Drainage required.
 Site clearance required.
 Previous construction experience.
 Capability of the engineer unit assigned.
6-51. Construction may involve new construction or the restoration or upgrade of existing airfields or
heliports simultaneously. A complete air base is a complex construction project. However, careful project
planning, a strict focus on essentials, and phased construction can result in a facility that will support air
operations soon after construction begins. Subsequent improvements and modifications can be made during
use. If construction is guided by a master plan, the staged completion of each structure can be designed to
serve the expedient operation and meet the criteria for the final design plan.
6-52. It is best to complete an air base to its ultimate design in a single construction program. It may be
necessary to initially design it to a lower construction standard to expedite getting the base into operation
within the available time with the available construction support. In such cases, every effort must be made to
proceed to the ultimate design standard for the airfield. The repeated modification of a facility plan is to be
avoided.

PRIORITIES AND STAGES
6-53. Priorities for expanding and rehabilitating an existing airfield are generally parallel to those for new
airfield or heliport construction. Procedures, personnel, and construction material requirements for expanding
or rehabilitating airfields are usually similar to new construction requirements and ADR. Before using an
existing facility for personnel, inspections (ideally, an EBS and OESHA are performed in conjunction) should
be done by environmental and preventive medicine personnel to prevent exposure to existing environmental
and occupational health hazards.
6-54. The first goal in building an airfield is to make it operational. Therefore, construction is designed to
support air traffic as soon as possible. See TM 3-34.48-1 and TM 3-34.48-2 for more information on airfield
priorities and stages. The order for construction proceeds according to the following priorities of work:
 First priority. Emphasis is on providing protection and security. Provide the facilities that are
most essential for air operations as soon as possible. Build airfield operational facilities, such as
runways, taxiways, approaches, and aircraft parking areas of minimum dimensions. Provide
minimum storage for aviation ordnance and aviation fuel. Provide essential airfield lighting, fire
protection services, medical services, attack warning systems, sanitation, power systems, and
water facilities. Survey facility groups, air traffic control, and landing systems.
 Second priority. Emphasis is on improving protection and increasing the capacity, safety, and
efficiency of air base operations. Provide indirect support operational facilities. Construct access
and service roads and essential operational, maintenance, and supply buildings.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-11

Chapter 6





Third priority. Emphasis is on improving protection and operational facilities. Provide facilities
for administration and special housing, such as leach fields, washracks, landfills, and an explosiveordnance disposal range.
Fourth priority. Emphasis is on improving protection and providing general housing. Institute a
base operation and facilities maintenance plan. Sustain environmental and medical surveillance of
the airfield and its supporting facilities.

6-55. Construction stages establish a sequence for constructing an airfield. These stages build the airfield in
parts to construct the least amount of operational facilities in the shortest possible time. For example, a
priority task may be reduced to smaller stages as follows:
 Stage I. Construct a loop that permits landing, takeoff, and circulation with a limited apron.
Runway lengths and widths are the minimum required for critical aircraft.
 Stage II. Construct a new runway. The Stage I runway now becomes a taxiway; and aprons,
hardstands, and additional taxiways are built.
 Stage III. Further expand facilities to accommodate additional aircraft as needed. If an existing
surface in the rear area is inadequate for all-weather operations in support of heavy transport
aircraft or high-performance fighter aircraft, an appropriate pavement structure is designed and
constructed.
Note. See TM 3-34.48-1 and TM 3-34.48-2 for additional information.

PRINCIPLES
6-56. Except for staking requirements, the techniques and principles for conducting airfield and heliport
construction surveys are identical to those for roads. An accurate estimate of earthwork volume is essential
to the proper control and management of a horizontal construction project. Following mass diagram
construction and analysis, equipment is scheduled and project durations are determined. An analysis of the
mass diagram will also determine haul routes, locations of equipment work zones, and areas for waste and
borrow sites.
6-57. Earthwork balancing may also occur between adjacent projects (such as runway and taxiway). The
constructing unit selects materials that meet design specifications from soils in cuts, borrow pits, quarries, or
local procurement.
6-58. During construction, permanent drainage structures are essential to the successful completion of an
airfield or heliport. Planning considerations are similar to those used for road construction.

PAVEMENT
6-59. The decision to pave an airfield or heliport during contingency operations is based on the urgency to
complete the airfield, the tactical situation, the amount and type of anticipated traffic, the soil-bearing
characteristics, the climate, and the materials and equipment of availability. Surfacing must meet the
allowable roughness criteria for each type of aircraft that will use the facility. Soil stabilization improves
strength, controls dust, and renders surfaces waterproof. The process is discussed in TM 5-822-14/AFJMAN
32-1019.

EXISTING FACILITIES
6-60. Maximize the use of existing facilities if they meet the minimum design requirements or can be
economically upgraded to meet requirements. Existing airfields and heliports may need an additional
pavement layer (airfield pavement upgrade). There may be requirements to construct or expand an existing
airfield structure (geometric upgrade) or support extensive new support facility construction. Consider the
expansion and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure over new construction. There is generally a substantial
savings in time, effort, and materials to upgrade rather than to build from scratch. Except in highly developed
areas, existing airfields are seldom adequate to handle modern, high-performance aircraft.

6-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports

6-61. The evaluation of existing airfield pavements is generally a reverse of the design process. The existing
airfield evaluation technical details are fully discussed in TM 3-34.48-1, TM 3-34.48-2, and UFC 3-260-03.
Consider the following general guidelines:
 Determine the airfield physical characteristics.
 Determine if the design aircraft can operate from the existing field, based on its minimum
geometric requirements.
 Determine the allowable number of passes based on an evaluation of the existing airfield, soil
strength, and pavement condition.
 Outline corrective actions to meet minimum geometric requirements or increase the allowable
number of passes.
6-62. Existing airfield dimensions and pavement structures must be evaluated by the reconnaissance team,
based on mission and operational requirements, to determine if the airfield can support air traffic. They also
determine the construction effort required. Some airfields can be made adequate with minimal effort. They
may also serve as the nucleus for larger fields that meet the specifications of high-performance aircraft.
6-63. Helicopters and light planes can often use existing roads, pastures, and athletic fields. Combat
engineers can upgrade these for initial or temporary use through forward aviation combat engineering.
Support facilities are converted to standards per the theater construction policy. The imaginative use of
existing facilities is preferable to new construction. The ground reconnaissance of an airfield previously
occupied by enemy forces must be cautious because facilities may contain explosive hazards. Coordinate
facility use with HN authorities because existing airfields, particularly in the rear area, may be needed by HN
air forces or for commercial purposes.

OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
6-64. Expedient surfaces include matting and membranes. Matting gives the Army and Marine Corps the
capability to build a runway quickly with minimum effort. Membranes provide airfield surfacing (but no
structural strength), dustproofing, and waterproofing (see ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A, TM 3-34.48-1, and
TM 3-34.48-2).
6-65. Upon airfield construction completion, the airfield manager or other authorized individual monitors
and controls the on-site aircraft certificate. The senior airfield authority issues a notice to airmen to change
the airfield status.

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
6-66. O&M of the airfield or heliport is performed by the Service controlling the airfield. General
engineering support is provided when the O&M tasks exceed the ability of the unit controlling the airfield.
General engineer O&M tasks include supporting airfield and heliport maintenance, road maintenance,
drainage structure maintenance, fire prevention, firefighting, and traffic control signage. O&M of engineerspecific systems includes maintaining utilities and power systems. This support may also include contracting
for electrical power, waste management, and ADR.

MAINTENANCE
6-67. Airfield maintenance is the routine prevention and correction of damage and deterioration caused by
normal use, wear and tear caused by aircraft, and exposure to the elements. Routine maintenance includes
inspections; stockpiled materials for repair and maintenance work; maintenance and repair of pavement
surfaces and drainage systems; dust control; and snow, ice, and foreign object damage repair. Foreign object
damage removal is generally accomplished using motorized sweepers. The user of the airfield coordinates
with engineers, who are responsible for airfield maintenance, to conduct routine foreign object damage
inspections.
6-68. The procedures and considerations for airfield maintenance are similar to those for road maintenance
and repair. The materials used for airfield maintenance are generally the same as those used for airfield
construction and repair. See TM 3-34.48-1, TM 3-34.48-2, UFC 3-260-01, UFC 3-270-01, and
UFC 3-270-08 for additional information.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-13

Chapter 6

6-69. Upon completion of an airfield repair or maintenance mission, crater repair evaluations are conducted
before resuming aircraft take-off and landings. When conducting repair evaluations, consider the following:
 Repair compaction. Verify the strength of the backfill, debris, or subgrade materials. Depending
on the repair method used, verify the thickness and strength of all surface and base course
materials. Test the soil structure using a dynamic cone penetrometer to determine the California
bearing ratio of each layer. Conduct these tests before placing foreign object damage covers, AM2 matting, stone and grout, asphalt, concrete, or other surface materials that would prevent the use
of the dynamic cone penetrometer.
 Surface roughness. Check the final grade of the repair using line-of-sight profile measurement
stanchions, upheaval posts, or string lines to ensure that the repair meets surface roughness criteria.
In the case of a crushed-stone repair without foreign object damage cover, check the repair surface
for loose aggregate or potential foreign object damage.
 Foreign object damage cover. Ensure that foreign object damage covers are no more than 5° off
parallel with the runway centerline. Check connection bolts and verify that all connections
between panels are tight and secure. Check anchor bolts and verify that all bolts are secure and
that the foreign object damage cover is held snugly against the pavement surface. In taxiway and
apron applications, anchor the leading and trailing edges of the foreign object damage cover.
Anchor the side edges if the cover is located in an area where aircraft are required to turn.
 Setting and curing. If the repairs are capped with concrete, stone and grout, or rapid-set materials,
verify that the surface material has set and that adequate cure time is allowed prior to aircraft
landing and taking-off.
 Cleanup. For all repair methods, verify that the repair and adjacent areas are clear of any excess
repair materials.
 Airfield certification. The on-site engineer who is responsible for the repair certifies that the
repair was accomplished according to the procedures in the appropriate UFC and other applicable
publications. The repair procedures are documented on an ADR journal, which is updated to
reflect subsequent aircraft traffic and required maintenance throughout the repair history. If
another team replaces the initial repair team, this form is transferred to the follow-on team. The
information is useful in planning or performing further maintenance or upgrade of the repairs.
Upon completion of repairs, provide the airfield repair status to the airfield manager or other
individual authorized to monitor and control on-site aircraft. This individual then issues a notice
to airmen to change the airfield status.

AIRFIELD DAMAGE REPAIR
6-70. Airfields are subject to damage by a complex array of destructive weapons, including cannon fire,
rocket fire, bombs, and bomblets. Explosive hazards (such as unexploded ordnance [to include scatterable
mines and unexploded bomblets] and improvised explosive devices), barriers, and other hindrances may
challenge efforts to make airfields capable of supporting air traffic. ADR includes airfield pavement repair,
damage assessment, explosive-ordnance disposal reconnaissance, minimum operating-strip selection, quality
control repair, and aircraft arresting system and utility system repair.
6-71. All Services accomplish ADR pavement repair in a similar manner. Major differences in the Services
methodology are in the final 18 to 24 inches of crater repair and capping due to mission differences, team
configuration, and available resources. Army engineers normally conduct minimal ADR as part of a forcibleentry operation by focusing on runway clearance and surface repair. ADR also include the infrastructure
required to conduct operations at a base that is seized from the enemy or offered for use by a friendly HN. It
also includes repairs required to sustain or to reestablish flights after enemy attack (see ETL 07-8, ETL
13-3, and TSPWG M 3-270-01.3-270-07 for additional information).
6-72. The Marine Corps has specially organized and equipped units to conduct ADR, which are the damage
assessment teams or damage assessment response teams. Marine Corps aviation ground support detachment
teams are trained to task-organize damage assessment teams and damage assessment response teams to
respond to hostile-induced rapid runway repair.

6-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports

6-73. Engineers must conduct a damage assessment, prepare for explosive hazard reconnaissance and
removal, understand the repair quality criteria, and know the requirements for the minimum aircraft-operating
surface. Consider including Air Force technical experts and airborne RED HORSE elements as a part of the
Army combat engineer element participating in the forcible-entry operation. They can assist in approving the
aircraft-operating surface, control aircraft landing and departure, and serve as liaison to the airfield-opening
team. The airfield-opening team can work with general engineer elements to take the airfield to a higher
standard of repair after the lodgment area has been secured.
6-74. For intelligence on all existing airfields and their dispositions or to request airfield damage assessment
and pavement evaluations, see the Air Force Civil Engineer Center website.

Repair Packages and Categories
6-75. A light airfield repair package is an Army capability-based organization. Its composition varies
according to mission specific requirements, such as the type of flight landing strip, number of pallets
available, and engineer parachute allocations. It consists of 8 to 16 personnel and 7 airdrop platforms or 5
external loads on a CH 47D helicopter. Army airborne and air assault engineer units have the capability of
repairing airfields to obtain a required minimum operating strip during joint forcible-entry. They use an airtransportable ADR kit, which is an expedient pavement repair kit, with the materials and nonorganic unit
equipment required to repair one crater 7.6 meters (25 feet) in diameter or 3-5 small craters, on a concreteor asphalt-surfaced runway. To install this kit, Army units use a light airfield repair package with organic
construction equipment and the ADR kit. Marine wing support squadron is capable of repairing airfields and
obtaining a required minimum operating strip during any operation.
6-76. Pavement damage categories are shown in figure 6-1, page 6-16. Damage to the pavement includes the
apparent crater damage and the upheaval of pavement around the crater. The damage category for a given
munition depends on the delivery method, penetration extent, and charge size. See
TSPWG M 3-270-01.3-270-07 for more information on ADR.

Repair Priorities
6-77. The airfield commander prioritizes essential ADR missions, usually in the following order:
 Reconnaissance and damage assessment.
 Explosive-ordnance disposal.
 Minimum airfield-operating surface repair.
 Repair to operational facilities, communication systems, ammunition storage facilities, essential
maintenance facilities, fuel storage and distribution areas, utilities, on- and off-base access routes
as a result of indirect damage due to direct-attack explosives that missed their primary targets.
 Environmental and occupational health hazards.

Emergency Repair
6-78. Emergency repairs provide an expedient and temporary fix to allow the earliest resumption of air
missions. The Service that is responsible for the airfield determines the minimum operating strip and
performs crater and surface repair. The minimum operating strip is the minimum width and length required
for an aircraft to land and take off. Normally, the largest area of the airfield with the least amount of damage
is selected and identified as the minimum operating strip. All explosive hazards, including remotely delivered
mines, must be cleared from the minimum operating strip before surface repair starts.
6-79. Army engineers organic to the BCTs will typically conduct the initial forcible entry. ADR is performed
by airborne and air assault engineer elements who center on combat engineering skills and use specific force
packages or modules to conduct emergency repair primarily using a sand grid. Forward aviation combat
engineering is a combat engineering mission. At this level of repair, this is a forward aviation combat
engineering task enables mobility. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for a discussion on forward aviation combat
engineering.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-15

Chapter 6

Legend:
ft
kg
lb
m

foot/feet
kilogram(s)
pound(s)
meter(s)

Figure 6-1. Airfield damage categories

6-16

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Airfields and Heliports

Figure 6-2. Camouflet
6-80. Figure 6-2 provides a profile diagram and photo of a camouflet. A camouflet is a crater with relatively
small apparent diameter but deep penetration and subsurface void created by the munition puncturing through
the pavement surface and exploding in the base material. They are produced by large, penetration-type
projectiles with hardened warheads and time-delay fuzes. Camouflets can collapse and are full of poisonous
gasses, void of oxygen.
6-81. Air Force engineers have sole responsibility for conducting emergency repair of established air bases.
The goal is to achieve sustained operations within 4 hours. This is done by specific force packages or unit
types formed from Air Force RED HORSE or Prime BEEF units. The Air Force uses the following
emergency repairs, depending on the nature of the damage:
 Crushed stone over debris.
 Choke ballast repair.
 Choke ballast over debris.
6-82. Army engineers use two methods to make beyond-emergency repairs to established air bases: stone
and grout repair and concrete cap repair.
6-83. Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps engineers use similar techniques. The airfield commander directs
the priority of pavement repair effort, allowing permanent repair to begin as soon as the tactical situation,
available equipment, and labor permit. Pavements outside the minimum operating strip, including taxiways,
usually have a lower repair priority. Deliberately marking or clearing explosive hazards (to include
unexploded ordnance and improvised explosive devices) must be completed before permanent repairs can
begin. Explosive-ordnance disposal personnel are usually available for these types of area clearance.
However, engineers may have to perform these tasks if time is critical, and the risk is acceptable. MCTP 320B describes ADR procedures and techniques used by Marine wing support squadrons. TACMEMO 404.2-22 describes procedures and techniques used by Navy task units when conducting expeditionary rapid
ADR.
6-84. Army engineers are responsible for assisting Air Force RED HORSE or Prime BEEF teams to repair
critical airbase support facilities when such repairs exceed the Air Force capability. Methods for repairing
indirect damage are much the same as ordinary engineer construction techniques.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

6-17

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 7

Roads and Railroads
Militaries throughout history have relied on ground transportation networks to
facilitate rapid movement and sustainment/combat service support to influence the
outcome of conflicts. Maintaining forward-deployed forces during contingency
operations requires an extensive logistics network. An adequate ground LOC network
is a critical part of this network and is a key to facilitating sustainment/combat service
support. Depending on the mission variables, roads and railroads may form the primary
LOCs during a contingency operation. Roads and railroads primarily support
operational mobility through the movement of personnel, equipment, and supplies and
link support to military ground operations. Railroads provide an efficient and economic
means to convey large volumes of equipment and supplies over ground. Engineers play
a key role in the transportation network by being responsible for road and railroad
construction, limited operations, maintenance, and repair. This chapter will focus on
road and railroad capabilities, planning and design, construction, and O&M.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
7-1. The Army has responsibilities and limited capabilities for constructing or repairing roads and railroads.
These Army capabilities are primarily related to horizontal and vertical general engineering. Marine Corps
engineer units are capable of constructing and repairing roads.

ROADS
7-2. Whether they are temporary or permanent, roads require some degree of Service support. This section
discusses the similarities and differences between each Service in providing road repair or construction.

Army
7-3. Army engineers consist of three disciplines—combat, general engineers, and specialized engineers.
The three engineer disciplines are inextricably linked and mutually supportive of one another.
Combat Engineers
7-4. Combat engineers are responsible for combat trails and roads. Building combat trails and roads is a
combat engineering task that is conducted in close support to ground maneuver forces that are in close combat
and to support mobility (see ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A).
7-5. Baseline Army combat engineer units consist of combat engineer company – infantry – armor, and
multirole bridge companies. Their basic capabilities include earthmoving assets for the hasty (expedient and
temporary) construction of combat trails, roads, or protective berms. Combat engineers can perform route
clearance, to include demolitions for blasting, removing, and hauling away road obstructions, such as rock
or heavy debris. They may be required to link these combat trails and roads across gaps by bridging. Combat
engineer tasks related to the construction of combat roads and trails includes clearing and grubbing of
vegetation and small trees (see ATP 3-34.22 and FM 3-34).
7-6. Combat engineers have the capability to deny enemy access to combat roads and trails through obstacle
systems and networked munitions in support of their countermobility mission (see ATP 3-90.8/MCTP
3-34B).

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-1

Chapter 7

7-7. There are limitations to combat engineer road-building capabilities. Combat engineers lack the
personnel, equipment, and expertise to construct surveyed and graded roads or to improve road surfaces.
Combat engineers may require augmentation with additional engineering assets and training. Therefore,
general engineers may be tasked to assist in the construction and repair of combat roads and trails if the repair
exceeds combat engineer capabilities. See FM 3-34 and ATP 3-34.22 for more information on capabilities of
combat engineer units.
General Engineers
7-8. General engineers are responsible for military roads. Higher-level road work is a general engineer task.
General engineers have the capability to plan, design, construct, and maintain military roads. General
engineers possess horizontal and vertical assets, which expand and enhance their capabilities beyond combat
engineers. They can construct and repair roads, MSRs, and railroads and handle large-scale projects. They
possess specialized expertise, such as the ability to perform quality road construction and improve road
surfaces and include surveyors and soil analysts. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for more information on
general engineer support to mobility.
7-9. General engineers can be augmented and enhanced with specialized engineer units to support roadbuilding efforts. They include construction management teams, topographic units, equipment support
platoons, survey and design teams, asphalt teams, concrete sections, and geospatial planning cells.
7-10. General engineers possess a variety of heavy construction equipment, to include graders, scrapers,
loaders, large dump trucks, excavators, cranes, concrete trucks, asphalt producers, and pavers. Their
capabilities also include quarry platoons with rock-crushers to produce and haul road base construction
material and asphalt teams for road surface paving.
7-11. The basic capabilities of engineers can be expanded through the augmentation of additional expertise,
personnel, and equipment for extensive road construction projects. Engineers also have the capability of
reachback for accessing additional construction expertise as needed. See ATP 3-34.22 for additional
information on capabilities. General engineers coordinate geospatial support as needed. See ATP 334.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) and TM 3-34.48-1 for more information on reconnaissance
requirements for routes.
7-12. Army engineer construction units have the following responsibilities and capabilities:
 Route, road, and bridge reconnaissance.
 Road base materials testing.
 Maintenance, repair, and upgrade of existing roads.
 Construction of new roads.
 Recommendations for traffic control procedures.
 Construction and installation of signs and other route-marking materials.
 Regulating traffic where engineer work is being performed.

Marine Corps
7-13. The primary Marine Corps engineer tasking is combat engineering and limited general engineering in
support of the MAGTF. Marines organized under an engineer support battalion have organic horizontal
capabilities to construct combat trails and roads. The Marine wing support squadron also possesses horizontal
capabilities to perform this task in support of aviation operations. Marines have no capabilities for roadpaving, and it is not an assigned task. See MCWP 3-34, NWP 4-04, and NTTP 3-10.1M/MCTP 3-34D for
additional information on Marine capabilities.

Navy
7-14. The Navy mobile construction battalion has organic capabilities for conducting road work. In their
combat support role, Seabees can provide the temporary repair and maintenance of existing roads and
construct unpaved combat trails and roads. In their base construction and civil works construction support
role, they can construct asphalt roads if necessary. See NTTP 3-10.1M/MCTP3-34 for additional information
on Seabee capabilities.

7-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

Air Force
7-15. Although their primary mission is airfields, Air Force engineers are trained and equipped with organic
capabilities to construct, repair, and improve routes and railroads. Their capabilities include pavement
evaluation and repair and concrete, asphalt, and paving. Air Force engineer units are organized as Prime
BEEF and RED HORSE units, and they can provide a broad array of general and adaptable engineering
capabilities (see Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34).

RAILROADS
7-16. The process for authorizing the construction, acquisition, or operation of railroad lines is discussed in
49 USC 10901. Military construction projects are discussed in 10 USC 2801. USACE designs, inspects, and
contracts for construction of railroads. The USACE Engineer Research and Development Center can also
provide tailored training for Army general engineer units to maintain and repair railroads.
7-17. Engineer construction companies, engineer support companies, and engineer vertical construction
companies, perform repairs to restore railroads to service and perform the limited construction of railroads.
Army general engineers have no railroad-specific technical training, but apply their road and facilities
capabilities to railroads.
7-18. The Expeditionary Railway Center is a modular force consisting of a single headquarters element and
five deployable railway planning and advisory teams (commonly known as RPATs). The Expeditionary
Railway Center is capable of conducting rail network capability and infrastructure assessments, rail safety
assessments, and using these assessments to inform and advise the combatant commander on the employment
of rail in a theater of operations. Additionally, the expeditionary railway center is capable of partnering with
HN rail and advising and assisting in the effective management of its railway system.
7-19. Railway planning and advisory teams provide direct assistance to the HN. They also function as
primary advisors on railway operations to a corps or theater sustainment command. The railway planning
and advisory team advises on HN rail infrastructure and employment of HN assets in support of military
operations. They coordinate and communicate with the HN, supported unit, or contracted entity to facilitate
rail operations. See ATP 4-14 for additional information on the Expeditionary Railway Center. The Army
capacity to operate railways does not include the equipment needed to mount a railway operation. For this
reason, the Army ability to use rail transportation depends largely on the existing capacity of the area of
operations. Rail is a strategic asset and an operational-level-of-warfare asset. The military’s Surface
Deployment and Distribution Command arranges for all rail movements of cargo and personnel to the seaport
of embarkation. Outside of the United States, the ASCC/MCCC is responsible for doing the same when
deploying armed forces in support of a military operation. Because of limited military resources, the use of
HN personnel or contractors may become the primary source of O&M capability (see FM 4-01).
7-20. During combat operations or in austere environments, rail loading and unloading areas may not be
available or suitable for military equipment. General engineering units should be prepared to build expedient
loading and unloading areas for equipment being transported by rail.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
7-21. The military uses roads and railroads to allow ground traffic to get from one point to another quickly
and efficiently, for as long as necessary, based on operational requirements. An analysis of the requirements
for roads and railroads can be completed by the phase of the operation or by the purpose. The analysis by the
phase of the operation may determine the need for roads or railroads to support access, theater opening, force
bed-down, offense, defense, base camps, stability, DSCA, or redeployment.
7-22. The analysis by the purpose may determine the roads or railroads to assure operational mobility, enable
force projection and logistics, or build partner capacity and develop infrastructure. Based on operational
requirements, the planner determines locations that must be connected, the degree of permanence or use, the
characteristics of estimated traffic type, and the volume of traffic. LOCs may determine the locations of some
military facilities, or the location of some military facilities may determine the location of some LOCs.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-3

Chapter 7

7-23. Road site preparation includes the following procedures:
 Establish security.
 Establish bypass and detour for existing traffic.
 Stage equipment and materials.
 Construct temporary support facilities.
 Survey and stake out the road geometric design.
 Rehearse on a test strip to verify quality assurance and quality control plans.
7-24. Road construction planning methods and tools include—
 Equipment and personnel task organization.
 Earthwork and time estimates.
 Mass diagrams.
 Personnel and equipment schedules.
 Procurement.

ROUTE SELECTION
7-25. Based on operational requirements and reconnaissance data, the engineer and transportation staff
officers propose an initial route for roads and railroads. This proposed route is analyzed based on obstacles,
route restrictions, grades, and the best horizontal and vertical alignment. The original route survey consists
of straight-line segments or tangents that are then connected through an iterative design process with
horizontal and vertical curves to achieve the shortest, smoothest, most efficient route that requires the least
construction resources.

ROADS
7-26. Military roads are classified according to their degree of permanence and the characteristics of traffic
they are designed to support—wheeled or tracked of a specific volume (number of vehicles per day). Military
roads are classified as Type A, B, C, or D, depending on the amount of traffic they are expected to sustain
per day. Type A roads (four-lane) are designed for the highest capacity, while Type D roads (one-lane) are
designed for the lowest. Normally, Types B, C, and D apply to theater construction. See TM 3-34.48-1 for
additional information.

Combat Roads and Trails
7-27. Combat roads and trails are a combat engineering mission because they are typically performed in
close support of ground maneuver forces; however, combat, and general engineers build them. Combat roads
and trails are usually characterized by expedient construction methods and are intended to handle low
volumes of traffic for a short duration to meet immediate requirements. Combat trails are intended to last
only a few days and consist of the bare minimum considerations for drainage. Combat roads have a temporary
surface of material (such as crushed rock) to increase trafficability. Since combat engineers do not have the
time, equipment (graders, water distributors, compactors), and training of general engineers, they cannot
construct a road to meet all geometric design for military roads. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for additional
information on combat roads and trails.
7-28. Military roads are rarely constructed to meet the exacting standards of comparable civilian
construction, to include environmental standards. Their degree of permanence varies, depending on how long
they are needed. The primary difference between combat roads and conventional roads is the degree of
permanence and the characteristics of the traffic they are designed to support. Combat roads are built to
handle low volumes of traffic for a short duration.
7-29. A combat trail is a travelled way that has been cleared of obstacles but has not been temporarily
surfaced. A trail may be roughly graded by combat earthmoving equipment to provide a relatively smooth
surface. Combat trails are usually adequate for tracked and wheeled combat vehicles. A combat trail is a
route through areas where routes do not exist.

7-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

7-30. A combat road is a travelled way that has been cleared of obstacles and temporarily surfaced by an
expedient means to increase its trafficability. Combat roads usually do not have bituminous or concrete
surfaces and consist of the bare minimum considerations for drainage. Combat roads require more effort to
build than combat trails, but they support a broader range of vehicles and tend to last longer.

Unsurfaced and Surfaced Roads
7-31. Unsurfaced roads consist of hastily cut pathways with native soil that is graded and drained to form a
surface to carry traffic. Unsurfaced roads are the result of the first three steps of the construction sequence
(clearing, grubbing, and stripping); this could become the subgrade for later surfaced roads. Unsurfaced
roads—
 Are used in combat areas where the speed of construction is required, and equipment and
personnel are limited.
 Are used generally in dry weather or by light traffic.
 Are used as haul roads in construction areas and as service roads on base camps or bases.
 Require periodic maintenance and, possibly, dust control.
 Are designed to initial standards to enhance mobility for a short time (less than 6 months).
7-32. Surfaced roads are laid out, designed, and constructed to specific criteria. The subgrade is compacted
to design specifications, and layers are added to create the road structure. Surfaced roads—
 Are used in rear areas or support areas where general engineers and resources are available.
 Are not limited by most weather and are designed for specific traffic loads.
 Are used as more permanent road networks, such as MSRs and primary LOCs.
 Require periodic maintenance and can be easily upgraded.
 Are designed to temporary standards to sustain mobility for a longer period (up to 2 years).
7-33. During contingency operations, nearly all roads are constructed to temporary standards. In some rare
cases, semipermanent and permanent roads may be designed to provide long-term mobility (up to 20 years).
Permanent roads are often planned, designed, and constructed in conjunction with USACE or similar
organizations. The employment of civilian contractors or Service general engineer organizations may be
used.
7-34. Most new, two-lane military roads are surfaced with aggregate (sand; gravel; crushed rock; slag; or
recycled, crushed concrete), stabilized soil, or the best locally available materials. This allows for future
upgrades and permits the maximum use of readily available materials to complete the road rapidly. Selected
high-use portions, such as intersections, may be surfaced with more durable materials to support heavier
loads. Only a few highly used, new military roads receive asphalt concrete or Portland cement concrete
surfaces due to the time required and the added cost for this type of construction.
7-35. Asphalt is a petroleum-based product with two primary subgroups used in construction: asphalt cement
and liquid asphalt materials. Asphalt cement is mixed with aggregate and sand to make asphalt concrete.
Liquid asphalt materials are sprayed on roads for various purposes. Bitumen (a generic term) is a broad
category of materials that occur naturally, or it could be an asphalt that is distilled from petroleum or a tar
that is distilled from coal. Bitumen and asphalt are often used interchangeably; bitumen is often used outside
the United States. Asphalt concrete (often called asphalt) and bituminous concrete are made with a
bituminous material as a binder for sand and gravel. Bituminous design is described in TM 3-34.63.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-5

Chapter 7

Road Networks
7-36. An assessment of the mission variables is considered when establishing any road network. These
considerations should include the following:
 Mission. Operational and mission requirements will determine the minimum road classification
and design requirements, based on the expected period of usage and the anticipated traffic load.
 Enemy. Threat capabilities and anticipated types of action could affect the methods of
construction and the road location and design. Avoid creating choke points and other potential
ambush points when possible.
 Terrain and weather. The location of a road is dictated by operational and mission requirements.
Existing slopes, drainage, vegetation, soil properties, weather patterns, and other conditions may
affect layout and construction.
 Troops and support available. Use local materials, labor, and equipment when and where
possible. Use simple or preexisting designs, such as those in the JCMS that require minimal skilled
labor and specialized equipment when possible.
 Time available. Speed is critical when establishing a road network during a contingency operation
because of the rapid and dynamic tempo of military operations. It is essential to save as much time
as possible by efficiently using the minimum amount of resources. Use effective project
management techniques to save resources. When possible, use staged construction to allow the
early use of roadways while further construction, maintenance, repair, and upgrades continue.
 Civil considerations. Civilian property restrictions, real estate actions, existing structures,
restricted areas, cultural beliefs, environmental considerations, and other factors may also affect
road layout and construction.

Route Reconnaissance
7-37. It may be necessary to conduct bridge reconnaissance and classification computations. See ATP
3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4) for additional information on route reconnaissance.
7-38. Proper site selection is a crucial step in new road construction. Future construction problems can be
avoided by the careful reconnaissance and wise consideration of future operational requirements. A road
project that is poorly laid out will not meet the requirements for construction ease and efficiency,
maintainability, usability, capacity, and convenience.
Engineer Reconnaissance Team
7-39. The engineer reconnaissance team is briefed as to the anticipated traffic (wheeled, tracked, or a
combination) and the anticipated traffic flow. Single-flow traffic allows a column of vehicles to proceed
while individual oncoming or overtaking vehicles pass at predetermined points. Double-flow traffic allows
two columns of vehicles to proceed simultaneously in the same or opposite directions.
7-40. The reconnaissance team may also be asked to determine the grade and alignment, horizontal and
vertical curve characteristics, and nature and location of obstructions. Obstructions are defined as anything
that reduces the road classification below what is required to support the proposed traffic efficiently.
7-41. Prior to the start of the actual route reconnaissance, the engineer reconnaissance team should conduct
a map reconnaissance of the site or area, to include studying aerial photos, reviewing available geological
and hydrological information and other geospatial information, and considering any other available, relevant
information. The engineer reconnaissance team may request the following sources of information to aid in
planning reconnaissance missions and in making the preliminary study of a specific mission:
 Existing intelligence reports, assessments and products, and threat analysis.
 Strategic and technical reports, studies, and summaries.
 Road, topographic, soil, vegetation, or geologic maps or other geospatial information.
 Existing aerial reconnaissance reports.
 Existing road design information or maintenance plans.

7-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

Soil Properties
7-42. The engineer reconnaissance team may also determine soil properties on-site and at potential borrow
pits and quarry sites along the proposed route. Soil properties (such as the liquid limit, plasticity index,
California bearing ratios, and gradation) are required to properly design a new road pavement structure or
upgrade an existing road pavement structure, based on the anticipated traffic that the road will support. These
soil properties are also required to evaluate the suitability of aggregate taken from potential borrow pits and
quarries for use in road construction, maintenance, and repair. In low-lying areas, the use of culverts,
corduroy roads, or matting may be required to reinforce the ingress and egress of these areas or to improve
fording sites.
Drainage
7-43. Drainage patterns impacting roads are also important in site selection. When the tactical situation
permits, roads should be located on ridgelines. Thus, natural drainage features minimize the need for the
costly and time-consuming construction of drainage structures. When possible, avoid excessive subsurface
water. If it is impossible to avoid road construction in locations with saturated terrain, water tables must be
lowered during construction. Steps must also be taken to minimize adverse effects of water on the strength
of the supporting subgrade and base course.
Obstacles
7-44. Where possible, avoid obstacles (such as rivers, ravines, and canals) to minimize the need for bridge
construction or similar structures. Such construction is time-consuming and calls for materials that may be
in short supply. Make maximum use of existing structures to decrease total work requirements. Do not bridge
an obstacle more than once. Should gap-crossing be necessary, ensure that the proper type of bridging or
other methods provides an adequate and sustainable solution.
7-45. To sustain traffic, roads have a crowned driving surface and pavement structure, a shoulder area that
slopes directly away from the driving surface to provide drainage off the driving surface, and side ditches for
drainage away from the road itself. The shoulder areas and side ditches along many roads may be minimal,
depending on their location and their road classification.

Road Design
7-46. The four major road designs that can be applied are—
 Geometric design.
 Pavement structure design.
 Drainage system design.
 Bridge design.
7-47. The road geometric design consists of the selection of road type, estimated traffic volumes, grade and
alignment, horizontal curves, and vertical curves. Each road type has geometric design data, such as cross
section elements and alignment elements that provide safe and rapid traffic movement. The geometric design
data is provided to the constructing unit that lays out the design information on the ground with the
construction survey. The construction survey provides stakes with survey details that construction equipment
operators can use to conduct earthmoving.
7-48. Unsurfaced roads use the natural soil or borrow soil as the road surface. The design of unsurfaced roads
is based on traffic characteristics and the compacted in-place soil strength. Unsurfaced roads meet all
geometric design data for the selected road.

Pavements
7-49. During contingency operations, consider whether to pave a road by considering the urgency of its
completion, the tactical situation, the expected traffic, the soil-bearing characteristics, the climate, the
availability of materials and equipment, and the necessity of dust control (see UFC 3-260-17).

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-7

Chapter 7

7-50. Pavements, including the surface and underlying courses, may be rigid and flexible. The wearing
surface of rigid pavement is made of Portland cement concrete. Asphalt cement concrete pavements are
classified as flexible pavements. The typical road pavement structure (cross section) consists of layers
(pavement or surface course, base, subbase, and select material) on top of a compacted subgrade (see UFC
3-250-04 and UFC 3-270-01).
7-51. There are four types of road pavement structure designs, which are distinguished by the pavement or
surface layer. These types are as follows:
 Unsurfaced roads.
 Aggregate-surfaced roads (see UFC 3-250-09FA).
 Bituminous-surfaced roads.
 Concrete-surfaced roads.
7-52. Flexible pavements are used almost exclusively in contingency operations. They are adaptable to
almost any situation and fall within the construction capabilities of normal engineer troops. Rigid pavements
are not usually suited to construction requirements during contingency operations. Because flexible
pavements reflect distortion and displacement from the subgrade upward to the surface course, their design
is based on complete and thorough investigations of subgrade conditions, borrow areas, and sources of select
materials, subbase, and base materials (see UFC 3-250-03 and UFC 3-250-08FA for more information on
flexible pavements).
7-53. A road pavement structure sits on top of the subgrade or the soil in place. A layer of compacted
subgrade sits on top of the subgrade, and a layer of select material sits on top of the compacted subgrade. A
layer of subbase material sits on top of the select material, and the base course sits on top of the subbase. A
road may have a flexible pavement (asphalt) or a rigid pavement (concrete) surface on top of the base course.
The thickness of a layer depends on the strength of the layer below it. Depending on design requirements,
some layers may not be required. These pavement structures are designed to distribute wheel loads over a
wider area of each subsequent underlying layer within the pavement, thereby reducing pressure on the
subgrade soils.
7-54. During contingency operations, nearly all roads are constructed as aggregate-surfaced roads. These
designs permit the maximum use of readily available materials and are easy to upgrade–permitting great
flexibility to respond to changing operational and mission requirements. When possible, the roadbed should
be aligned to take advantage of the most favorable surface and subsurface terrain. An alignment over soil
with good properties meets the design standards for strength and stability and minimizes the need to remove
undesirable materials.

Other Road Considerations
7-55. The pavement structure design considers traffic characteristics, soil and construction aggregate
conditions, compaction, and cover requirements. The most common military road is constructed with an
aggregate pavement structure design. The pavement structure design produces the layer material properties,
thickness, and compaction design and final design profile with cut-and-fill information. TM 3-34.48-1
provides additional detailed information on the design of bituminous- and concrete-surfaced roads. TM
3-34.63 covers rigid-pavement structure design for roads and airfields (see UFC 3-250-01).
7-56. The overall road design consists of many factors. It may include chemically stabilized layer design,
frost design, and geotextile design. One option to improve the ability of the road to support traffic is soil
stabilization. The goals of soil stabilization are the stabilization of expansive soils, soil waterproofing, and
dust control. Soil strength improvement increases the load-carrying capability of the road. Dust control
alleviates or eliminates dust generated by vehicle and aircraft operation (see TM 5-818-7; TM 5-8188/AFJMAN 32-1030, TM 5-822-14/AFJMAN 32-1019; and UFC 3-260-17).
7-57. Soil waterproofing maintains the natural or constructed strength of a soil by preventing water from
entering it. Soil stabilization is generally accomplished by either mechanical or chemical methods. In
mechanical stabilization, soils are blended and then compacted. In chemical stabilization, soil particles are
bonded to form a more stable mass, using additives such as lime, bitumen, or Portland cement (see UFC
3-250-11 for additional information).

7-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

7-58. Traffic flow over roads is far more efficient if curves and grades are held to a minimum. Even gentle
curves significantly decrease traffic capacity if there are too many on a route. Therefore, lay out all routes
with a minimum of curves by making the tangent lines as long as possible. The availability of long tangents
is influenced by terrain. It is also limited by other principles of efficient location, such as minimizing
earthwork, avoiding excessive grades, and obtaining desirable soil characteristics.
Note. When excessive curves are required based on limiting terrain, consideration should be given
to reinforcement of curves (concrete pads) to support tracked vehicle traffic.

RAILROADS
7-59. The ability to rapidly move troops and materiel to key locations may well decide the outcome of a
conflict. Railroads provide one of the most effective and efficient forms of land transportation available to
forces during contingency operations. They can move great volumes and tonnages of materiel and large
numbers of personnel over long distances with considerable regularity and speed in nearly all weather
conditions. Railroads are flexible and versatile, and rolling stock may be tailored for transporting cargo.
Extensive railway systems exist in most regions of the world and have an interoperability provided by
standard equipment and common gauge, which may vary depending on the theater of operations. These
capabilities make railroads a preferred means of transportation during contingency operations.
7-60. Maximizing a rail system may depend on its capacity (length and condition of existing track, condition
of rolling stock and other facilities) and its ability to support operational and mission requirements while still
maintaining essential commercial traffic. ATP 4-14 describes the organizations, processes, basic construction
and maintenance standards, and systems involved in rail movement. See UFC 4-860-01 for additional
information on railroad design. See UFC 4-860-03 for more information on railroad track standards.
7-61. All existing facilities should be used to the maximum extent possible to minimize construction time
and effort. Transportation units in coordination with engineers conduct a reconnaissance and select new
routes. New railroad construction will normally consist of short spurs to connect existing networks with
military terminals or to detour around severely damaged areas. The focus of engineer effort should be on
modifying and repairing existing railroads to meet operational and mission requirements.
7-62. Local labor and management are key to the rapid modification and continuing maintenance of existing
facilities. Local personnel can often supply materials and skilled labor to speed the work and relieve military
personnel for other projects. Local railway operating personnel can be a good source of information on
existing conditions, operations, and supply facilities in a given area.
7-63. In order to expedite operations, railroads constructed during contingency operations may have accepted
lower safety factors, sharper curves, and steeper grades than recommended by the American Railway
Engineering Association. Once the minimum standard for immediate service has been determined, phased
improvements can be made, provided the importance of the line justifies the effort. Derive Army construction
standards from AR 420-1. Per AR 420-1 and UFC 4-860-01, the American Railway Engineering and
Maintenance of Way Association Manual for Railway Engineering is used for new construction or major
rehabilitation. Use UFC 4-860-03 for routine maintenance and inspection. UFC 4-860-03 references also
track safety standards.

Railroad Bridges
7-64. A railroad bridge is a LOC bridge and is classified as a nonstandard bridge. The Army does not have
design criteria for nonstandard railroad bridges, nor does it possess railroad float bridge equipment. Many
varieties of standard railroad bridges are available through AFCS. Construction details and bills of material
are addressed in TM 5-302-1. The current engineer bridge reconnaissance procedure allows for determining
the MLC of a rail bridge for vehicle traffic but does not include a methodology for conducting rail bridge
assessment for the use of rail. An assessment would require the use of reachback or an on-site subject matter
expert to make the crossing determination.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-9

Chapter 7

7-65. The railway bridge construction process begins with a proper determination of design requirements.
The engineer determines the appropriate load-bearing capacity of the intended bridge to support the full
weight of the train itself, plus its maximum cargo load. In most cases, the design criteria should consider
Cooper E80 loads (train with a locomotive weight of 520 metric tons and axle loads equal to 37 metric tons).
7-66. Panel bridge equipment can be used as a field expedient for the assembly of railway bridges. Panel
bridge design has to take into consideration rail design criteria and the associated deflections of these loadings
to meet rail crossing requirements.
7-67. The engineer coordinates with the Transportation Corps for support in railroad planning. The following
information is needed:
 Mission and required capacity of the proposed systems.
 Type, size, and weight of rolling stock to be operated.
 Track gauge.
 Initial, intermediate, and final terminal points along the route.
 Servicing and maintenance facilities required.
 Connections with other railway systems.
 Maximum gradient and degree of curvature required.
 Scheduling or timetable for completing construction.
 Direction of future development and expansion.
 Outbound movement—the ready track and wye.
7-68. Railroad service facilities should be laid out so that servicing can be performed in proper sequence as
the locomotive moves through the terminal. The usual relationship of operations and facilities from terminal
entrance to terminal exit is—
 Inspections. Inspection pits or platforms.
 Lubrications. Oil and grease service areas.
 Ash pits. Ash pits for cleaning fires if steam locomotives are used.
 Facilities. Coal, sand, diesel oil, and water-appropriate facilities.
 Repairs. Running repairs (engine house).
7-69. The urgency of the situation or lack of additional bridging assets may require that a railroad bridge be
converted into a highway bridge by constructing a smooth roadway surface. The use of the bridge by rail,
wheeled, and tracked vehicles can be achieved by constructing planks along the ties between and outside the
rails, up to the level of the top of the rail.
7-70. The repair and reinforcement of existing railroad bridges is a much more viable option than new
construction. Nonstandard railroad bridging can be repaired or improved using any available and suitable
materials. Railroad bridges will require specialized construction equipment and is labor-intensive. This
generally precludes the construction of railroad bridges at locations away from existing rail lines. When a
site is selected, use the basic criteria for general bridge sites.

Railroad Reconnaissance
7-71. After design requirements have been determined, transportation unit representatives and engineers will
conduct a field reconnaissance to determine the siting of the rail system. The surveys, studies, and plans
required for railroad construction are necessarily more elaborate than those for most road construction.
Studies of the best available topographic maps, imagery, and other geospatial products narrow the choice of
routes to be reconnoitered. Factors that affect the location of a route include logistics, length of line,
curvature, gradients, load-bearing capacity of travelled surface, and ease and speed of construction. Each of
the mission variables can impact on railway site selection, just as they affect the location of a road. Terrain
analysis procedures for railroads can be found in Engineer Technical Letter 0311.

7-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

Logistics
7-72. Logistics is a major consideration in selecting a rail route during contingency operations. Normally, a
rail line will extend from a seaport of debarkation, aerial port of debarkation, beachhead, or another source
of supply in theater to the logistics support areas sustaining the forces present. Alternate routes are desirable
for greater flexibility of movement and as insurance against cases of mainline obstruction because of threat
actions, wrecks, washouts, floods, fires, landslides, or enemy activity. An assessment is conducted to
determine the vulnerabilities of rail lines to provide input to the threat assessment and security plan. These
considerations include transfer switches, constrictions, centralized routing systems, junctions, and offload
stations.
7-73. The length of line (mileage from point of origin to terminus) is important only when it adds materially
to the time of train movement. As much as a 30 percent increase in mileage is permissible when it proves
advantageous to the other factors involved.
Curvatures
7-74. Minimize sharp curves as much as possible, consistent with the need for speed during construction.
Determining the curvature for a military railroad will depend largely on the maximum rigid wheelbase of
train cars and locomotives. Super-elevation is used to counteract centrifugal force on curves by raising the
outer rail higher than the inner rail (see TM 3-34.55).
Ruling Grades
7-75. The ruling grade of a route is the most demanding grade over which a maximum-tonnage train can be
handled by a single locomotive. Where diesel-electric units are used, a single locomotive may consist of two
or more units that are coupled and controlled from the cab of the leading unit. The ruling grade is not
necessarily the maximum grade. Steeper grades can be negotiated with the use of an additional locomotive
as a helper engine; or if the grade is very short, the train may be carried over the crest by momentum. Since
military railroads operate at slow speeds, the ruling grade should be kept to a minimum. As always, the
necessity for rapid construction should be a top priority.
Ground Reconnaissance
7-76. Select a good route that will allow the rail line to be rapidly constructed using minimal resources. Many
additional hours of earthwork and grading can be avoided by a careful route selection. See UFC 4-860-01 for
additional information on railroad inspection standards. See TM 3-34.55 for more information on railway
reconnaissance techniques.
7-77. A complete ground reconnaissance of the possible railroad routes is required. The reconnaissance team
should note distance and elevation odometer and barometer observations, general terrain characteristics,
controlling curvatures, soil and drainage conditions, bridge and tunnel sites, bridge sizes and types, railway
or important road intersections, ballast and other construction material availability, and points at which
construction units would have access to the railway route. Factors to be taken into consideration include the
roadbed, rock cuts, hillsides, drainage, security, water supply, passing track, and surveys.
Roadbed
7-78. The roadbed should be built on favorable soils. Clay beds, peat bogs, muck, and swampy areas are
unstable foundations and provide unsuitable soils for building fills. Cuts through unfavorable soils will
slough and slide. Seek minimum earthwork in locating the roadbed and track. Where rock cuts are proposed,
select locations that will allow the bedding planes to dip away from the track to prevent rockslides. Avoid
locations at the foot of high bluffs, which will subject the track to rock falls, slides, and washouts. Rockwork
is time-consuming; avoid it when practicable. In a temperate zone, choose sites along the lee side of hills.
This prevents snowdrifts and resists wind effects.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-11

Chapter 7

Site Selection Considerations
7-79. The proposed railroad site should facilitate drainage or prevent the need for it. Ridge routes are best
for this purpose but may be exposed to enemy fire or observation. Avoid locations that require heavy
bridging. Note that diesel equipment cannot be operated over track inundated above the top of rail, because
water will damage traction motors. Suitable sites for passing sidings are planned. Passing-track spacing
depends on traffic density and expected peak conditions of traffic flow.
Surveys
7-80. The preliminary railroad survey includes cross sections along the feasible routes. Trail locations are
plotted and adjusted to give the best balance of grades, compensated grades, cuts, and fills. This establishes
or fixes the line of the railroad. Field survey parties locate the precise line and then stake it. This requires
much more precision than the location survey of most new roads, since curves and super elevations must be
accurately computed.
7-81. Once the necessary railroad reconnaissance and surveys are complete, the engineer prepares an
estimate of the work and materials required and a plan for carrying out the construction. The engineer
schedules the priority and rate of construction and provide for the even flow of material to ensure orderly
progress. Schedules are continually be updated to accommodate changed field conditions or other exigencies.
In addition to their planning function, the schedules can also serve as progress charts.

CONSTRUCTION
7-82. Road and railroad construction require carefully planned methodologies. This section discusses the
reconnaissance, steps, processes, estimating, and sequence required for sound construction and the upgrading
requirements.

ROADS
7-83. The construction directive usually provides the road geometric design, pavement structure design, and
drainage system design, but probably not the temporary construction drainage structures. Road construction
encompasses the following considerations:
 Site reconnaissance.
 Site preparation.
 Construction planning.
 Construction survey.
 Construction sequence of execution.
 Existing intelligence reports, assessments and products, and threat analysis.
 Strategic and technical reports, studies, and summaries.
 Road, topographic, soil, vegetation, and geologic maps or other geospatial information.
 Existing aerial reconnaissance reports.
 Existing road design information or maintenance plans.

Construction Steps and Processes
7-84. Road construction processes encompass the following considerations:
 Clearing.
 Grubbing.
 Stripping.
 Cutting and filling.
 Grading and shaping.
 Ditching and sealing.
 Road maintenance.

7-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

7-85. Clearing, grubbing, and stripping are the same in road and airfield construction. Earthmoving is usually
the largest single work item on any project involving the construction of a road, unless the road will have
significant gaps to cross. Any step that can be taken to avoid excessive earthwork will increase job efficiency.
7-86. Adequate drainage is essential during the construction of a military road or airfield to control water
runoff. A construction drainage system is temporarily established to prevent construction delays and
structural failure before completion. The construction drainage system requires continuous inspection and
maintenance.
7-87. Consider the proposed use of the road. If it is to be used only for a short time, such as 1 or 2 weeks, a
detailed drainage system design is not justifiable. However, if improvement or expansion is anticipated,
design drainage so that future construction does not overload ditches, culverts, and other drainage facilities.
See TM 3-34.48-1 for more information on drainage.
7-88. Drainage problems are greater when all-weather use occurs as opposed to intermittent use. Consider
the availability of engineer resources. Heavy equipment (such as dozers, graders, scrapers, and excavators)
is commonly used on drainage projects. However, where unskilled labor and hand tools are readily available,
drainage work can be done by hand.

Work Estimates
7-89. When the necessary reconnaissance and mission analysis are complete, the engineer prepares an
estimate of the work and materials required and a plan for carrying out the construction. The engineer
schedules the priority and rate of construction and provide for the even flow of material to ensure orderly
progress. Schedules are continually be updated to accommodate changed field conditions or other exigencies.
In addition to their planning function, the schedules can also serve as progress charts.

Construction Sequence
7-90. Once earthwork estimation, equipment scheduling, and necessary surveys are complete, the
construction sequence can begin. Prepare the construction site by clearing, grubbing, and stripping. These
activities are usually done with heavy engineer equipment. Use hand or power felling equipment, explosives,
or fire when applicable. The factors determining the methods to be used are the acreage to be cleared, the
type and density of vegetation, the effect of the terrain on equipment operation, the availability of equipment
and personnel, and the time available for completion. For best results, use a combination of methods,
choosing each method for the operation in which it is most effective.
7-91. Conduct cut and fill when clearing, grubbing, and stripping are finished. Cut and fill are the biggest
part of the earthwork in road construction. The goal of cut and fill work is to bring the route elevation to
design specifications. Throughout the fill operation, compact the soil in layers (lifts). Achieve soil
compaction with self-propelled or towed rollers. The end state is a structure that minimizes settlement,
increases shearing resistance, reduces seepage, and minimizes volume change.
7-92. The advantages that accompany soil compaction make this process standard procedure for constructing
embankments, subgrades, and bases for road and airfield pavements. Cut, fill, and compaction efforts are
intended to achieve the final grade. This alignment takes into consideration superelevation along curves to
ensure load stability and falls within military road grade specifications. When final grade is achieved, cut
ditching to control drainage runoff and crown the road along its centerline. The road is now ready for
surfacing.

Surfacing Considerations
7-93. All unpaved roads will emit dust under traffic, making it an inherent problem. The amount of dust that
an unpaved road produces varies greatly depending on local climatic conditions and the quality and type of
aggregate used for road construction. Common dust control agents include chlorides, resins, natural clays,
asphalts, and other commercial binders and membranes. Dust control and soil waterproofing can be carried
out by applying these agents in a spray (soil penetrants) or admixture or by laying aggregate, membrane, or
mesh as a soil blanket. See UFC 3-260-17 for additional information on dust control measures.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-13

Chapter 7

7-94. The agronomic method (using vegetation cover) is suited to stable situations but is rarely useful during
contingency operations. To effectively apply stabilizers and dust control agents, ensure that the aggregate
road surface has good gradation, construct a good crown on the driving surface, ensure good drainage, ensure
that the equipment is calibrated accurately and is working properly, and rehearse the application of the agent
using a test strip.
7-95. Use expedient surfaces as temporary means to quickly cross small areas with extremely poor soil
conditions (such as swamps, quicksand, and wetlands) when lacking the time or resources for standard road
construction. These are unsurfaced roads where some material has been placed on the natural soil to improve
trafficability. There are two types of expedient roads—hasty and heavy. Hasty expedient roads are built
quickly to last only a few days. Heavy expedient roads are built to last until a durable standard road can be
constructed. Expedient surfacing methods include cross-country tracks, corduroy, chespaling landing mats,
Army track, plank tread, wire mesh, snow and ice, and sand grid.
7-96. The availability of construction material determines the types and strength of roads that can be
constructed. Naturally occurring materials, such as rock and wood, may be scarce or of poor quality. Portland
cement may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive to use. Sand grid material is excellent for use
in areas of cohesionless soil. Matting, steel planking, or geotextiles may be used if they are available. When
roads are constructed in areas of poor soil conditions, roadways should be well marked, and adequate
drainage is provided (see ATP 4-13).
7-97. Spray applications and surface treatments are the most economical, troop-constructed surfaces. Surface
treatment can be divided into two categories—sprayed treatments and sprayed bitumen with aggregate
surface. Bituminous materials are tars, road tar cutbacks, or asphalt emulsions. Spray applications provide
soil or aggregate with the following surface treatments:
 Prime coat (waterproofing).
 Tack coat (binds bituminous pavement to the surface).
 Dustproofing.
7-98. Spray bitumen with an aggregate surface provides a waterproof, abrasive, wear-resistant surface with
no significant structural strength.

Upgrades
7-99. Where possible, use existing road facilities. In most areas, an extensive road network already exists.
With the expansion and rehabilitation of the roadway and the preparation of adequate surfaces, the road
network can be improved to carry required traffic loads. Upgrading an existing road, combined with routine
maintenance and repair, usually involves reducing or eliminating obstructions. It is the preferred method of
improving the trafficability of a selected route.
7-100. Techniques, equipment, and materials needed for upgrading roads are generally the same as those
for new construction. A changing tactical situation and unpredictable military operations may also require
that military engineers modify and expand completed construction. The location of a road should allow for
potential expansion. Expanding an existing route or facility conserves labor and material and permits speedier
completion of a usable roadway. Understanding the capacity of the existing roads and bridges is critical in
developing a network of bypasses and alternate routes as threat levels escalate on designated LOCs and
supply routes.

RAILROADS
7-101. As a first stage in organizing railroad construction work, the engineer divides the line into sections
in which special features (such as bridges, stations, yards, and rock cuts) can be constructed while other work
is in progress. Work can proceed concurrently at several locations. The standard construction sequence is as
follows:
 Clear and grub.
 Prepare the subgrade by cutting or filling and compacting.
 Unload and distribute track materials.

7-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads









Align and space cross ties. See Technical Report FM 94/01 for information on fastenings and other
track materials inspections.
Place line rails or ties.
Place gauge rail on ties to ensure proper spacing.
Line the track.
Unload the ballast.
Raise and surface the track.
Make final alignments.

7-102. In addition to the actual rail line, certain facilities are necessary to rail movement or are required due
to particular physical conditions. Sidings are auxiliary tracks next to the main line, which are used for meeting
and passing trains, for separating and storing equipment that breaks down en route, and for storing rolling
stock that cannot be moved to its destination. The railway transportation unit will determine siding locations
in coordination with engineers. Sidings are built parallel to the rail line and should be 250 feet longer than
the longest train that will use it and have a turnout at either end.
7-103. Avoid highway and road crossings at grade when possible. When crossings are installed, construct
them so that the road axis is approximately perpendicular to the railroad centerline. Rail crossings carry one
track across another at grade and permit the passing of wheel flanges through opposing rails. The design of
frogs to allow these crossings depends on the angle at which they cross. In military railroads, most frogs are
made of precast, immobile rails that can be easily installed.
7-104. Wyes are used in place of turntables, which are impractical for use in contingency operations. A wye
is a triangular-shaped arrangement of rail tracks with a turnout at each corner where two or more rail lines
join to allow trains to pass from one line to the other. Wyes may be installed at engine terminals, summits,
junctions, and railheads as time permits. In some cases, the stem of the wye may be long enough to permit
the turnaround of the entire train.
7-105. Structures needed for supporting railroad transportation include—
 Facilities for train crews and maintenance personnel.
 Yards and terminals.
 Shop facilities for train and rail repair.
 Engine house.
 Water stations.
 Storage areas for material and tools.
 Loading ramps for cargo.
 Block stations (facilities that house the switching and signaling equipment that controls train
movements).
7-106. A railhead is at the end of a railroad. Yards are a system of tracks that serve three basic functions.
These functions include—
 One or more tracks long enough to receive an entire train.
 A system of shorter tracks for the storage or classification of freight.
 Departure tracks on which rolling stock from the classification yard may be assembled for
dispatching.
7-107. In addition to the auxiliary facilities described above, other specific construction requirements may
be dictated by the terrain or operational requirements. Special equipment, materials, and expertise may be
required to construct a railroad and its accompanying facilities to quickly and efficiently support units.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-15

Chapter 7

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
7-108. Roads and railroads require O&M to extend their service life and usefulness to support the force.
This section discusses the routine and scheduled requirements and considerations.

ROADS
7-109. The operation of roads is often performed and controlled by transportation units or movement control
teams when they are designated MSRs or alternate supply routes. Operation involves controlling traffic with
orders, signs, checkpoints and, possibly, patrols.
7-110. Road maintenance requires a substantial amount of resources and technical expertise on a continuous
basis. Roads should be maintained and repaired for safe and speedy traffic movement. Maintenance is the
routine prevention and correction of damage and deterioration caused by normal use and exposure to the
elements. Repair restores damage caused by abnormal use, accidents, hostile forces, and severe weather
actions. Repair includes the resurfacing of a road or airfield when maintenance can no longer accomplish its
purpose. Rehabilitation restores roads or airfields that have not been in the hands of friendly forces and do
not meet operational requirements. Rehabilitation resembles war damage repair, except that it is
accomplished before occupancy.
7-111. Routine maintenance and repair include inspections, stockpile of materials for maintenance and
repair work, maintenance and repair of road surfaces and drainage systems, dust and mud control, and snow
and ice removal. The main purpose of maintenance and repair work is to keep road surfaces in usable and
safe condition. Routine maintenance and repair also maintain route capacity and reduces vehicle maintenance
requirements. Effective maintenance begins with a command-wide emphasis that stresses good driving
practices to reduce unnecessary damage. Once damage has occurred, prompt repair is vital. After
deterioration or destruction of the road surface begins, rapid degeneration may follow. A minor maintenance
job that is postponed becomes a major repair effort involving the reconstruction of the subgrade, base course,
and roadway surface.
7-112. The following guidelines should be observed in conducting sound road maintenance and repair:
 Minimize interference with traffic. To keep surfaces usable, maintenance and repair activities
should interfere as little as possible with the normal flow of traffic. A temporary bypass may be
required.
 Correct the basic cause of surface failure. Efforts spent to make surface repairs on a defective
subgrade are wasted. Any maintenance or repair should include an investigation to find the cause
of the damage or deterioration. That cause is remedied before the repair is made. To ignore the
cause of the damage is to invite prompt reappearance of the damage.
 Reconstruct the uniform surface. Maintenance and repair of existing surfaces should conform
as closely as possible to the original construction in strength and texture. Simplify maintenance
by retaining uniformity. Spot strengthening often creates differences in wear and traffic impacts,
which are harmful to the adjoining surfaces.
 Assign priorities. Priority in making repairs depends on the operational requirements,
commander’s guidance, traffic volume, and hazards that would result from the complete failure of
the facility.

Maintenance Inspections
7-113. The purpose of road maintenance inspections is to detect early defects before actual failure occurs.
Frequent inspections and effective follow-up procedures early in the process prevent minor defects from
becoming serious and causing major repair jobs later. Prompt and adequate maintenance (care of joints, repair
of cracks, replacement of broken areas, and correction of settlement) and drainage involves retaining a
smooth surface and keeping the subgrade as dry as possible. A smooth road surface protects the pavement
from the destructive effects of traffic, and it reduces vehicle wear and tear (see TM 3-34.63 for more
information).

7-16

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Roads and Railroads

7-114. Road inspections are essential to prevent road failure. When inspecting road surface and drainage
defects, look for actual causes of the defects. Potholes are the most common type of road failure in bituminous
wearing surfaces. Potholes and pavement defects can usually be attributed to excessive, heavy loads and
traffic; inferior surfacing material; frost in the base; poor subgrade; excessive settlement in the base;
inadequate drainage; or a combination of these conditions. Ensure that all drainage channels and structures
are kept unobstructed. Exercise extra vigilance during rainy seasons and spring thaws and after every heavy
storm.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.63, UFC 3-270-01, and UFC 3-270-08 for additional information on road
inspections and repairs.
2. See TM 3-34.48-1, for additional information on drainage system maintenance.
3. See TM 5-626 for information on unsurfaced road maintenance.

Other Maintenance Considerations
7-115. Generally, the materials used in road maintenance and repair are the same as those used in new
construction. Maintenance activities may include opening pits and stockpiling sand and gravel, base
materials, and premixed cold patching material. Place materials in convenient, centralized locations and stock
in sufficient quantities for emergency maintenance and repair. Arrange stockpiles for quick loading and
transportation to key routes.
7-116. In some areas, extensive repairs are required to make roads usable. Advance engineer units usually
do this repair work. Under the pressure of combat conditions, repairs are sometimes temporary and rapidly
made using the most readily available materials. Such expedient repairs are intended only to meet immediate
minimum needs. As advance units move forward, other engineer units take over additional repair and
maintenance. Early expedient repairs are supplemented or replaced by work that is more permanent. Surfaces
are brought up to a standard that can fully withstand the required use. Maintenance becomes a matter of
routine.
7-117. Engineer units establish a patrol system to cover the road network for which the unit is responsible.
Periodic patrols by elements, such as military police personnel, who use the road net on a sustained and
frequent basis can assist with patrolling. Engineer road maintenance and repair modules are organized with
proper personnel, equipment, and supplies to accomplish road repair and maintenance in a specific area. As
many modules as needed are organized to cover the AOR.
7-118. The heavy traffic level and limited road durability may make it necessary to conduct maintenance
on a 24-hour basis. A squad-sized road maintenance and repair module equipped with a dump truck, grader,
and hand tools can conduct maintenance and minor repairs encountered on a 5- to 15-mile stretch of road.
This module can be increased or decreased, and more or fewer miles can be assigned to a module as the
mission dictates. Security conditions also influence the size and composition of these elements and the
employment methodology.
7-119. During contingency operations, severe winter weather may present challenging maintenance
problems. Regions of heavy snowfall require special equipment and material to keep pavements and other
traffic areas open. Low temperatures cause icing on pavements and frost effects on subgrade structures.
Alternate freezing and thawing may cause damage to road surfaces and block drainage systems with ice.
Spring thaws could cause surface and subgrade failures and may damage bridging.
7-120. Winter maintenance consists of removing snow and ice, sanding icy surfaces, erecting and
maintaining snow fences, and keeping drainage systems free from obstruction. Each command should publish
a comprehensive snow and ice control plan that clearly specifies the responsibilities of engineer and
nonengineer units. Engineer and nonengineer reconnaissance is established to monitor snow and ice
conditions within the area of operations. Adequate personnel and snow and ice control equipment and
supplies are allocated to support the plan.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

7-17

Chapter 7

7-121. A detailed discussion of pavement failures, maintenance and repair methods, and rigid pavement
maintenance is covered in TM 3-34.63, UFC 3-250-08FA, and UFC 3-270-01.

RAILROADS
7-122. Railroads may be operated by the HN, private companies, contractors, or military transportation
railway personnel. Although transportation units have the responsibility for routine maintenance, engineers
should be prepared to provide construction support when additional maintenance beyond the organic
capabilities of transportation units is required. Rail lines and supporting facilities are inspected regularly to
ensure adequate maintenance and proper operation. Necessary action is undertaken as quickly as possible to
minimize future repair requirements.
7-123. Railroad preventive maintenance, including the proper cleaning and lubrication of equipment and
machinery, will minimize the need for unnecessary maintenance and repair. Railroads are susceptible to
maintenance problems and are vulnerable to enemy attack, guerilla warfare, and sabotage. Railroads used by
the transportation railway service already exist. Maintenance is required on supporting facilities, road
crossings, railroad bridges, tracks, sidings, and switching equipment. See ATP 4-14 for additional
information on railroad maintenance.

7-18

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Chapter 8

Bridging
Rivers and dry gaps have posed serious problems for military forces by obstructing
their freedom of maneuver. Strategically and tactically, bridges are vital and vulnerable
since they influence mobility and access to key terrain. Very few LOCs exist without
a bridge, bypass, or detour. Engineers play a pivotal role in assisting ground maneuver
forces with bridge reconnaissance crossing and fording site selection analysis. The
Army has a variety of bridges that it can deploy, assemble, or construct according to
situation and mission requirements. The Marine Corps has no bridging equipment. This
chapter will discuss bridge types, designs, uses, and planning considerations in
determining the best bridge to use for tactical, support, and LOC.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
8-1. ADP 3-90 discusses the key role of bridging in the offense. Rivers and gaps are major obstacles, despite
advances in high-mobility weapon systems and extensive aviation support. Wet-gap crossings are among the
most critical, complex, and vulnerable combined arms actions that use tactical and assault bridging. A
crossing is conducted as a hasty crossing and as a continuation of the attack, when possible, because the time
needed to prepare for a gap crossing allows the enemy more time to strengthen the defense.
8-2. The size of the gap and the enemy and friendly situations will dictate the specific tactics, techniques,
and bridging procedures used in conducting the crossing. The Army has the capability to conduct a combined
arms gap crossing with organic engineers and tactical bridge sets. Combat engineers are responsible for
conducting tactical and assault bridging with tactical units, while general engineers are responsible for LOC
bridging. Bridging is fulfilled by both combat and general engineering.
Notes.
1. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for more information on combined arms gap crossings.
2. See ADP 3-90 for more information on offense and defense.
3. See ADP 4-0 for more information on bridging to support sustainment and the LOC
transportation system network.

ARMY
8-3. Theater engineer commands have the theater engineering planning oversight, to include bridging, with
a senior engineer planning staff, with command and control of assigned engineer brigades. Engineer brigades
have staffs for planning bridging. Engineer battalions are assigned bridge missions and control of assigned
engineer units performing the actual bridge building execution. See FM 3-34 and ATP 3-34.22 for more
details on Army engineer unit organization.
8-4. Army engineer units can provide trained personnel and working equipment in support of bridging
missions. The Army has multirole bridge companies with the expertise, personnel, and equipment for
building a variety of bridges. Engineer units can complement mission support with heavy equipment like
cranes, bulldozers, and dump trucks to move weight-intensive bridge parts. Engineer units can provide
specialized tool sets, kits, and outfits to aid in bridge building. Army engineers can advise and assist
maneuver forces with bridging expertise by conducting specialized site reconnaissance, conducting existing
bridge structure assessments, and providing geospatial and terrain visualization products. Army engineers

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

8-1

Chapter 8

can also provide topographic services. Combat engineers can remove damaged bridge structures through
demolitions.
8-5. Engineer dive teams can assist in providing critical support to the engineer commander during rivercrossing by conducting nearshore and far-shore reconnaissance; performing hydrographic surveys to depict
bottom composition; conducting underwater and surface reconnaissance of bridges to determine structural
integrity and capacity; repairing or reinforcing bridge structures; emplacing, marking or reducing underwater
obstacles using underwater demolitions. Divers may also assist in installing impact booms, antimine booms,
and antiswimmer nets to prevent damage to fixed bridging. Engineer divers support countermobility by
denying enemy access to bridging assets. Divers can be used to survey, emplace, prime, and detonate
explosives on bridge supports to degrade or destroy bridges. See TM 3-34.83 for information on United States
Army engineer organizations and capabilities. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for information on bridge unit
details.

UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
8-6. The CCDR may use USACE for the design, award, and management of bridge construction contracts
in support of military operations. USACE has a professional staff of engineering subject matter experts for
consulting or collaborating on bridge designs or engineering concepts and for providing technical assistance.
USACE has an extensive system of research laboratories for materials testing, structural integrity, and
product development. In addition, it also has reachback capabilities for the field engineer or can deploy teams
to the field for resolving unique bridging issues. USACE is a DOD construction agent for the construction of
bridges. See FM 3-34 and JP 3-34 for information on the role of USACE.

NAVY
8-7. Naval mobile construction battalions and Seabees have extensive heavy horizontal and vertical
construction capabilities, to include constructing and maintaining roads and bridging for supply routes. Naval
mobile construction battalion tasks include the installation of standard and nonstandard bridging. They can
also install, repackage, and redeploy panel bridges. NAVFAC is a DOD construction agent for the
construction of bridges. See NTTP 3-10.1M/MCTP 3-34D for information on Naval mobile construction
battalion capabilities, roles, and missions.

MARINE CORPS
8-8. The Marine Corps has engineering units organic to its MAGTF that possess the capability to construct
military nonstandard fixed bridging. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A and TM 3-34.22/MCRP 3-34A.2 (MCRP
3-17.1B) for bridging details.

OTHER COUNTRIES
8-9. U.S. military allies can be a viable option for obtaining additional bridging assets. Countries like Great
Britain and Germany maintain organic bridging assets with military engineers. Specific, allied bridging assets
are discussed later in this chapter. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for additional information.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
8-10. There are two basic bridging types: standard and nonstandard (see ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A). While
the two types could be combined as a hybrid of some nature, the bridge will normally be identified by its
predominant components. Standard bridging includes any bridging derived from manufactured bridge
systems and components that are designed to be transportable, easily constructed, and reused. Nonstandard
bridging is purposely designed for a particular gap and typically built utilizing commercial, off-the-shelf or
locally available materials. Nonstandard bridging is normally used when time permits; materials and
construction resources are readily available; standard bridging is inadequate, unavailable, or being reserved
for other crossings; and the situation allows for unique construction. These bridges are normally left on-site,
even when they are no longer necessary to support military movement. Nonstandard bridging is typically
constructed by construction engineers or contractors utilizing steel, concrete, and/or timber.

8-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Bridging

8-11. There are three bridging categories that are broadly defined by their intended purpose (see ATP 390.4/MCTP 3-34A). These categories include tactical bridging, support bridging, and LOC bridging. The
bridging category is typically dictated by the operational environment, time, gap characteristics, and
equipment availability. They are subordinate to the bridging types and, therefore, can be standard or
nonstandard. As the situation changes, crossing sites may be eventually abandoned, improved, or replaced
with appropriate bridging alternatives.

TACTICAL BRIDGING
8-12. Tactical bridging is rapidly deployable and has the mobility to maintain the pace of operations with
the maneuver force that it supports. Tactical bridging is typically linked to combat engineers and the
immediate support of ground maneuver forces. Tactical bridging criteria includes the following:
 The bridge can be deployed and recovered.
 There is little bank preparation work required.
 There is minimum time needed to recover.
8-13. The actual bridge can usually be deployed and recovered without exposing the crew to direct or indirect
fire. There are little to no requirements for bank preparation when using tactical bridging assets. It takes
minimal time to deploy and recover for temporary crossings.
8-14. Engineers primarily use three bridge systems to conduct tactical bridging. These systems include—
 The armored vehicle-launched bridge.
 The joint assault bridge.
 A rapidly employed bridge system.
8-15. Although tactical bridging can be used on LOCs, planners should consider using this limited resource
temporarily until it is replaced by a better bridging solution. Tactical bridging is not designed to sustain or
support the heavy volume of vehicle traffic sustained through LOC bridging. Tactical bridging assets should
be freed up as soon as possible to ensure that they support combat maneuver and sustain the tempo of
operations. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for additional information on bridging.

SUPPORT BRIDGING
8-16. Support bridging is used to establish semipermanent or permanent support to planned movements and
road networks. Support bridges are normally used to replace tactical bridging as they provide greater gapcrossing capability to the force than tactical bridging. Units typically deploy and recover these systems when
and where little or no direct fire threat exists. Bank preparation and improvement are important planning
factors for support bridging. For more information on bridging capability, see ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A.

Commercial Bridging
8-17. Another support bridging option is procurement of commercially available panel bridges. See ATP 390.4/MCTP 3-34A for more information on employing semipermanent and permanent LOC bridges.

Float Bridging
8-18. A float bridge is designed as a rapid and temporary means to cross maneuver forces over wet gaps by
building raft configurations to transport forces across the wet gap or by emplacing bays to span the entire
width of the wet gap. U.S. forces can use float bridge rafts as assault bridging assets if needed. These rafts
can be used during buildup to assist in assembling full floating bridges during bridgehead. Floating
causeways can be used as floating bridges to augment standard floating bridge capability. There is generally
no design limit to the length of this bridge. The normal limiting factor is the quantity of bays and boats;
however, the velocity or current of the water, tidal variations, water depth, underwater obstructions, floating
debris, and entry and exit bank slopes can also limit float bridging. Descriptions and construction techniques
for the standard ribbon bridge are found in TM 3-34.85/MCRP 3-17A, and techniques for the improved
ribbon bridge are explained in TM 5-5420-278-10.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

8-3

Chapter 8

8-19. Float bridging may be used when there is a lack of existing fixed facilities or no suitable construction
materials to fabricate, reinforce, or repair existing bridges. When the situation calls for prolonged use or
heavy traffic, an existing bridge should be upgraded, or new construction initiated. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP
3-34A for technical information on employing float bridging.

LINE OF COMMUNICATIONS BRIDGING
8-20. LOC bridging is generally conducted in areas that are free from the direct influence of enemy action.
LOC bridging is an ASCC, or JFC managed asset assigned to the Corps for implementation. The corps has
specific fundamental planning and resourcing responsibility. Corps-assigned bridging capabilities provide
assault float bridging and follow-on LOC bridging. General engineering tasks are executed to maintain LOCs
(see FM 3-34 for more information on bridging capabilities). Typically, its primary purpose is to facilitate
the sustainment of the force according to ADP 4-0. It can be used as a semipermanent or permanent structure.
LOC bridges are built with the assumption that, once emplaced, will not likely be removed until replaced by
a more permanent structure. LOC bridges may be tactical fixed bridges if the intention is to leave the system
in place for an extended period and they are not required to support combat maneuver.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
8-21. Planning factors should account for the extended use of the bridge and increased wear because of
extended use. When planning for LOC bridging, planners should consider that an existing permanent bridge
may be damaged or may not be strong enough for mission requirements. Engineers repair and reinforce a
bridge using standard or nonstandard materials to meet mission requirements. The new construction of LOC
bridges is possible; however, improving existing structures is most desirable to avoid the intense resource
and time requirements associated with new construction. See ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A for more information
on LOC bridging.

BRIDGE SITE SELECTION
8-22. Selecting an adequate site for a bridge requires special considerations. This section discusses the
reconnaissance requirements for new and existing bridges.

Geospatial Considerations
8-23. Engineers use the engineer function of geospatial engineering to greatly improve situational
understanding (to include terrain) and select optimal bridging sites through enhanced terrain visualization
using high-resolution satellite imagery or unmanned aircraft system video. The requirement for the engineer
is to have the appropriate software. Engineer terrain teams should assist in reconnaissance and assessment
conditions in areas at or around potential gap-crossing sites. Terrain teams have software that can assist in
mission planning by determining soil conditions, hydrology, vegetation types, general weather conditions,
and other useful aspects of the terrain. See ATP 3-34.80 for additional information on geospatial engineering.

Bridge Reconnaissance
8-24. ERTs should be used to collect data to determine acceptable terrain and conditions for new bridge
construction. Through reconnaissance information, planners can determine which type of bridge or bridge
combinations are right for the mission based on available resources (see ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP
3-17.4).
8-25. The final selected bridge site is determined by numerous factors, which are reflected in its structural
design. Primary screening considerations include—
 Floodplain encroachment analysis.
 Access and approach roads. Determine if the preexisting roads are adequate. The time to construct
approaches can be a controlling factor in determining if a crossing site is feasible. Approaches
should be straight, with two lanes, and have less than a six percent slope.
 Widths. Determine the width of the gap to be spanned at normal and flood stages for wet gaps.

8-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Bridging










Banks. Estimate the character and shape of the banks accurately enough to establish abutment
positions. The banks should be firm and level to limit the need for extensive grading. Select
straight reaches to avoid scour.
Flow characteristics. Determine the stream velocity and erosion data, taking into consideration the
rise and fall of the water. A good site has steady current that runs parallel to the bank at less than
3 feet per second.
Stream bottoms. Record the characteristics of the bottom. This will help determine the type of
supports and footings required. An actual soil sample is useful in the planning process, particularly
in wide gaps that may require an intermediate pier.
Elevations. Determine and record accurate cross-sectional dimensions of the site to determine the
bridge height. Planners identify any existing structures that the bridge crosses over.
Materials. Determine the availability and accessibility of firm material, such as rock, for
improving bank conditions.

8-26. If these primary considerations for bridge site selection appear favorable, planners may apply the
following evaluation criteria:
 Proper concealment for personnel and equipment on both sides of the gap.
 The location of bivouac and preconstruction storage sites.
 Firm banks with less than a five percent grade to reduce preparation work. Less than one percent
grade will also require site preparation.
 Terrain that permits the rapid construction of short approach roads to existing road networks on
both sides of gap.
 Turnarounds for construction equipment.
 Large trees or other holdfasts near the banks for fastening anchor cables and guy lines.
 A steady, moderate current that is parallel to the bank.
 A bottom that is free of snags, rocks, and shoals and is firm enough to permit some type of spread
footing.
 Determination of the number of assembly sites (upstream or downstream) for floating portions of
the bridge. If the current is strong, locate all assembly sites upstream from the bridge site.
 Proper siting of logistics support activities to mitigate the possible effects of flooding.
8-27. Criteria for establishing a float bridge site may be the same as those for general bridge site selection.
The following are specific float bridge site considerations:
 Banks should be low, firm, moderately sloping, and free from obstructions. Existing or easily
prepared assembly sites are desirable.
 The stable bank should have a slope of 8° or less and a water depth of at least 48 inches on the
near shore.
 The water velocity near the shore should be less than 5 feet per second. If the current is faster (up
to 10 feet per second), additional boats, personnel, and time will be required to emplace the bridge.
 Natural holdfasts for anchorages are desirable. Float bridging is installed far enough downstream
from a demolished or under-capacity bridge to avoid interference with reconstruction or
reinforcement being undertaken. Unstable portions of a demolished bridge and other debris that
may damage the float bridge should be removed before emplacing the float bridge.

Reconnaissance of Existing Bridges
8-28. Part of the site selection process is a reconnaissance of existing structures to evaluate the physical
condition of existing bridges. ERTs inspect the bridge to determine its load-carrying capacity (classification)
and its structural integrity. The engineer reconnaissance team should determine whether the situation
warrants emplacing a tactical, support, or LOC bridge. When a damaged bridge is being considered for repair
or replacement, reconnaissance information should include a report on the serviceability of the in-place
structural members, local materials that might be reused in other construction, and the potential for
overbridging (see ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A and TM 3-34.22/MCRP 3-17.1B). Maximum use should be

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

8-5

Chapter 8

made of existing bridge sites to take advantage of existing roads, abutments, piers, and spans that are
serviceable.
8-29. Bridge reconnaissance is classified as hasty or deliberate, depending on the amount of detail required,
time available, and security in the area of operations. Both types of reconnaissance are fully discussed in
ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4). A deliberate reconnaissance is usually conducted in support of
MSR and LOC bridging since greater traffic requirements dictate that time and qualified personnel be made
available to support the task.
8-30. The use of the automated route reconnaissance kit will assist the engineer reconnaissance team by
tracking the location, speed, curve, and slope of roads and the obstacles encountered along the route. An
engineer light dive team can assist with the deliberate reconnaissance by providing nearshore and far-shore
crossing site data. Additionally, they can mark and prepare landing sites, riverbanks, and exit routes for the
crossing force. A deliberate reconnaissance includes a thorough structural analysis; a report on approaches
to the bridge site; a report on the nature of the crossing site, abutments, intermediate supports, and bridge
structure; repair and demolition information; and the possibility of alternate crossing sites. After a proper
reconnaissance, a bridge study is completed. This is the detailed analysis of the selected site. To complete
the bridge study, the engineer should—
 Request a topographic map to a scale of approximately 1:25,000. The map is used to plot the
location and obtain the distances and elevations for design purposes.
 Determine whether physical characteristics at the site limit normal construction methods or
interfere with construction plant installation.
 Make a detailed survey to furnish accurate information from which the bridge layout can be
developed, materials requisitioned, and the construction procedure outlined. Submit the survey as
plan and profile site drawings.
 Conduct a foundation investigation. Develop a soil profile along the proposed bridge centerline
and at pier and abutment locations.

BRIDGE DESIGN
8-31. Bridges are designed to match the specific site conditions, proposed traffic, load-bearing capacity, type
of materials available, and time available for actual construction. The various combinations of bridge types
allow for a variety of designs, ranging from beam bridges, arch bridges, suspension bridges, and truss bridges.
Bridges are usually designed to be standard or nonstandard. Consult the specific standard bridge model
technical manuals for detailed information on applying design variations. See TM 3-34.22/MCRP
3-17.1B for more information on designs for military nonstandard fixed bridges.

BRIDGE CLASSIFICATION
8-32. An efficient MSR network should be capable of carrying expected traffic loads. Often, bridging is the
weak link in the load-carrying capacity of a route. Military standard bridging is assembled in modules that
result in a bridge of known capacities. Support bridging is designed to pass an uninterrupted flow of combat
and tactical vehicles that generally fall within a military load classification below 60. However, some
combinations of vehicle size and weight may exceed a given bridge design capacity.
8-33. Where heavier loads are anticipated, it is best to designate MSRs along routes that already possess
bridges with appropriate classification ratings or to design and emplace bridges that can carry these loads.
The selective use of fords, in conjunction with MSR bridge sites, can provide a solution in selected cases.
8-34. Situations may arise when it is not possible to safely accommodate all traffic designated to cross MSR
bridges. Guidelines are set for special crossings (caution and risk) for oversize or overweight loads on military
standard, nonstandard, and float bridging. Specific guidance for determining special crossings is contained
in TM 3-34.85/MCRP 3-17A, TM 5-5420-278-10, and TM 5-5420-279-10. Unit engineer planners make
recommendations for appropriate circumstances of risk or caution crossings to the commander and receive
the delegation of authority for approval of such crossings.

8-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Bridging

8-35. A structural engineer periodically inspects the bridge for signs of failure when routine caution crossings
are made and after each risk crossing. Structurally damaged parts are replaced, repaired, or reinforced before
traffic can resume. An engineer light dive team can assist in determining the extent of any subsurface damage
and can complete repairs. See UFC 3-310-08 for additional information on nonexpeditionary bridge
inspections, maintenance, and repair.
8-36. All civilian bridges are not designed to support military MSR traffic, and the required load
classifications may not be known when forces initially enter the area of operations. There are numerous
bridge types that forces may encounter in a given area of operations, and there is no single, easy approach to
classifying all of them.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

8-7

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 9

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities
Military base camps have played an instrumental and historical role through various
forms and configurations to support the warrior, whether serving as a platform for
sustainment or as a stronghold to repel enemy attacks. Operating from base camps is a
fundamental tactic of ground-based forces. Base camps may have a specific purpose,
or they may be multifunctional (see ADP 4-0). Army and Marine Corps base camp
doctrine is provided in ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N). The use of the
term base camp in this chapter includes the descriptive purpose of facilities that meet
the definition of a base camp, such as en route facilities, access facilities, theateropening facilities, bed-down facilities, logistics support facilities, and facilities
designated as bases. All force bed-down facilities are not within base camp perimeters.
This chapter discusses the distinct differences between base camps and bases. It
focuses on the general engineering aspects of base camps (including planning and
design, standards, site layout, construction, and O&M) and other support facilities.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
9-1. This section discusses the responsibilities and capabilities of the Army, Marine Corps, CCDR, Service
component commander, engineer commander, USACE, and Installation Management Command. Each entity
plays a unique and important role in the support required for base camps or bed-down facilities.

ARMY AND MARINE CORPS
9-2. Army and Marine Corps engineers have key responsibilities and capabilities to support base camps
and force bed-down facilities, but they do not own base camp life cycle activities or provide all bed-down
capabilities. Base camp development and force bed-down are team efforts. Army forces typically rely on a
mix of bases or base camps to deploy combat power to an operational depth (see ADP 4-0).
9-3. The designated base camp commander temporarily owns the base camp. An engineer may be
designated as a base camp commander, generally with no higher priority than any other officer. Engineers
can be assigned to fill some of the staff positions to operate and maintain a base camp. For example, an
engineer unit may be assigned the responsibility to plan, design, construct, operate, or maintain a base camp
to complete these tasks for a base camp as a turnkey project and then command (own) and operate from the
base camp.
9-4. All Services are capable of planning and executing bed-down support activities. General engineers can
plan, design, and construct base camps and operate and maintain engineer systems for base camps and force
bed-down support (see JP 3-10).

COMBATANT COMMANDER
9-5. The CCDR is responsible for the major decisions involving base camp location and development
within the area of responsibility. The CCDR may delegate authority for base camp decision-making to
Service component commanders or to commanders exercising Title 10 USC Service responsibilities.
Decisions are often made in consultation with the HN, subordinate commanders, and Department of State
representatives. The CCDR establishes the policies, requirements, and procedures for master planning in the
JOA. The requirements for master planning are linked to the theater-basing strategy. The CCDR specifies (in
OPLANs and OPORDs) the construction standards for the overall operation of facilities in the theater to
minimize the construction effort expended on any given facility, while assuring that the facilities adequately

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-1

Chapter 9

support the mission and meet all environmental, health and safety requirements. Command emphasis is key
to any environmental or engineer related task.

SERVICE COMPONENT COMMANDER
9-6. The Service component commander establishes a staff engineer section with a facilities and
construction department that manages engineering and construction within the area of operations under the
appropriate Title 10 USC responsibilities. The staff engineer section is responsible for developing the base
camp and bed-down plan for Service personnel and equipment arriving in the AOR. With guidance from the
CCDR and approval from the Service component commander, the staff engineer section provides guidance
on engineering and construction missions; establishes standards for construction; conducts coordination with
the HN; participates in funding, utilization, and resourcing boards; and coordinates with USACE or the
NAVFAC and the theater engineer command. Their responsibilities include integrating the legal, force health
protection, and other aspects of environmental considerations provided from the respective areas of staff
expertise. Service component commanders produce a service level scheme of base camps that subordinate
commanders use as the framework to develop their scheme of base camps.

ENGINEER COMMANDERS
9-7. Engineer commanders and staff are responsible for assisting the supported commanders by furnishing
engineer advice and recommendations to the commander and other staff officers; preparing the engineering
portions of plans, estimates, and orders that pertain to base camps; participating on project approval and
acquisition review boards and base camp working groups as necessary; and coordinating and supervising
specific engineer activities for which the engineer staff is responsible. The engineer staff assists the
commander by performing a variety of functions to synchronize engineer activities in the operational area.
See FM 3-34 and MCWP 3-34 for more information.

THEATER ENGINEER COMMAND
9-8. The TEC will assist in the operational management and tactical execution of bed-down facilities. They
conduct base master planning, engineer estimates, assign and mange troop construction and conduct contract
construction management.

UNITES STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
9-9. USACE is responsible for providing standards for construction; guidance on scalability,
standardization, and modularity; expertise on contingency standard designs; and management of the AFCS.
They also manage the worldwide power contingency contracts that provide power system services in conflict
and disaster response locations. USACE provides deployable augmentation teams to support base camps.

INSTALLATION MANAGEMENT COMMAND
9-10. The Installation Management Command is responsible for providing guidance on Army installation
and facility management. The Army organization with premier knowledge on best practices can be
transferred to facilities and base camp operations and management. The Installation Management Command
may provide deployable augmentation teams to support base camps.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
9-11. Combat engineers normally support initial entry or access into enemy-held territory through a
beachhead, airhead, or bridgehead. The initial secured and defended area is then expanded into a substantial
defended area, also referred to as a lodgment. General engineering may support the initial entry or access
through LOTS or JLOTS and airfield or port construction, maintenance, or repair. General engineers replace
combat engineers so that they can move forward with maneuver forces. General engineers then provide
support to expand the lodgment in size and capabilities as it progresses to a support area or joint security
area, and then base development may begin. Some of the expedient bed-down facilities may be upgraded and

9-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

may be contained within base camps. Base camps should be planned from the start of the mission, but
requirements may evolve over time. Bed-down facilities may be required before, during, and post combat.
9-12. Base camps may also be established in nations adjacent to the operational area to support deployment
before or after initial entry into an area. For example, an intermediate staging base may also serve as a base
camp. Base camps and bed-down facilities may include new or prefabricated construction and make
maximum use of existing structures (with and without repair or modification).

SPECIFIC JOINT TERMINOLOGY
9-13. Base development (less force beddown) is the acquisition, development, expansion, improvement,
construction and/or replacement of the facilities and resources of a location to support forces. An EBS is a
multi-disciplinary site survey conducted prior to or in the initial stage of an operational deployment (JP
3-34).
9-14. Force beddown is the provision of expedient facilities for troop support to provide a platform for the
projection of force (JP 3-24). Force bed-down and base camp development is described in JP 3-34 as separate
sub-functions under the sustainment function. See JP 3-34 for a discussion on bed-down engineering,
including troop and aircraft bed-down.

SPECIFIC ARMY AND MARINE CORPS TERMINOLOGY
9-15. A base camp is an evolving military facility that supports the military operations of a deployed unit
and provides the necessary support and services for sustained operations (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13
[MCRP 3-17.7N]). Base camps are nonpermanent by design and designated as a base when the intention is
to make them permanent. A base or base camp has a defined perimeter and established access controls and
should take advantage of natural and man-made features. A commander designates an area or facility as a
base or base camp and often designates a single commander as the base or base camp commander who is
responsible for protection, terrain management, and day-to-day operations of the base or base camp. Units
located within the base camp are under the tactical control of the base camp commander for security and
defense. According to ADP 4-0, base camps may be joint or single Service and will routinely support U.S.
and multinational forces. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) and JP 3-34 for additional
information on base camps.
9-16. Base camp location selection is the process of evaluating a series of possible locations for a base camp
(see EP 1105-3-1). It is part of the overall base camp planning development process. Selecting the best
location for a base camp is a balance between operational, sustainment, and engineering requirements, and
the operational and mission variables. All sites considered as potential base camp sites should be scalable
and easily expanded. The most desirable site locations are those that are easiest to secure and defend. When
the establishment of a base camp is being considered, identify at least three suitable, possible locations (COAs
or options) before recommending the most advantageous COA. The entire staff should be involved in
evaluating potential base camp sites. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N), EP 1105-3-1, and
JP 3-34 for additional information.
9-17. Base camp development planning is a time-sensitive and mission-driven, cyclical planning process that
determines and documents the physical layout of properly located, sized, and interrelated land areas,
facilities, utilities, and other factors to achieve maximum mission effectiveness, maintainability, and
expansion capability in theater (EP 1105-3-1). The process also addresses the eventual cleanup and closure
of the base camp after the U.S. military mission is completed. Base camp development planning products
include the planning report, maps, plan drawings, and other geophysical information. Further, the tabulation
of existing and required facilities is essential in defining real property assets and shortfalls and, subsequently,
in developing projects and other actions to mitigate deficiencies. Some documents, such as selected maps,
are used on a daily basis by assigned units and by those individuals who are responsible for operating and
maintaining the base camp. For more detailed information, see EP 1105-3-1.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-3

Chapter 9

9-18. Base development (less force bed-down) is the acquisition, development, expansion, improvement,
construction and/or replacement of the facilities and resources of a location to support forces (see
JP 3-34). According to ADP 4-0, a base camp is an evolving military facility that supports the military
operations of a deployed unit and provides the necessary support and services for sustained operations (see
JP 3-34 for more information).
9-19. A design guide is a design tool for standardizing sustainable energy and water efficiency, safety, and
protection measures; and promoting visual order and consistent architectural themes. The design guide is a
written and graphically depicted set of standards that governs the design, development, visual aspects, and
maintainability of a specific base camp. A design guide applies mostly to longer-duration base camps and
those that will likely be transferred and become permanent facilities/sites in the HN. The guide also may be
used to define performance and customer service standards for various base camp functions. See ATP
3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) and EP 1105-3-1 for additional information.
9-20. The EBS documents the original environmental condition of the land. An EBS is required if an area is
to be occupied by U.S. forces for more than 30 days. Documenting initial site conditions helps to prevent
liability to the U.S. government for damage or contamination that was present before site occupation. Also,
by identifying existing environmental hazards and potential health risks during the planning phase of a
contingency operation, the overall suitability of a site can be used in the site selection process, and concerns
can possibly be mitigated with proper planning. For example, water or soil contamination, air pollution, poor
site drainage, and improper waste management are environmental hazards and health risk factors that impact
site suitability and planning. Hazards may be generated on and off of the survey site, and hazards include
both those impacting personnel on the survey site and those impacting the surrounding indigenous
populations and institutions. The survey can help planners determine the best site layout, including locations
(from an environmental and health standpoint) for life support areas, maintenance, sanitation, hazardous
material storage, and so forth. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2, EP 1105-3-1, and JP 3-34 for additional
information on the EBS and other environmental documentation, as well as environmental considerations.
9-21. General site planning is finding and plotting, to scale, a logical location for every aboveground area,
facility, and infrastructure requirement, along with the portrayal of the various, often invisible, major utility
corridors, safety clearance zones, and various boundaries that influence and support the base camp
development plan (EP 1105-3-1). It requires multidisciplinary expertise in a process that links architecture,
engineering, military operations planning, antiterrorism/force protection, the environment, social science,
and community planning. The result of this process establishes plan-view dimensions, corridors, zones, and
boundaries for the development of a base camp, usually portrayed on overlays to maps of the area (see ATP
3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) and EP 1105-3-1 for additional information).
9-22. Land use planning is the process of mapping and planning the allocation of land use areas based on
general use categories, mission analysis products, functional requirements and interrelationships, and criteria
and guidelines (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP 3-17.7N]). A land use plan is like a jigsaw puzzle,
because each piece of the plan is intended to fit together to form a whole that is greater than the sum of the
parts. The plan is sized and shaped to account for constraints that cannot be overcome, to take advantage of
opportunities that exist, to accommodate existing requirements, and to allow for future expansion.
Compatible land uses are placed close to each other, and incompatible land uses are not. See ATP
3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) and EP 1105-3-1 for more information on land use planning.
9-23. The master planning for base camps generally follows the process that is used for permanent
installations, except it has a shortened planning horizon and may not be prepared to the same level of detail.
See AR 210-20, ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N), and EP 1105-3-1 for additional
information on master planning.
9-24. Site design (sometimes referred to as site planning) includes the actions taken by a design professional
to draw up and prepare detailed plans, specifications, and cost estimates for the construction or renovation of
facility complexes, individual buildings, infrastructure, and supporting utilities. The term site design is used
to avoid confusion with the terms site planning and general site planning (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13
[MCRP 3-17.7N]).

9-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

9-25. Base camp cleanup and closure is the process of preparing and executing alternative COAs to vacate
a base camp after a U.S. military mission is complete. An archival record is prepared that includes the
operational history of the base camp, the actions taken to clean up and close the base camp, and a description
of cleanup and closure tasks that could not be completed which may lead to land use, health, safety, and
environmental problems in the future (see ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP 3-17.7N] and
EP 1105-3-1 for more information).

BED-DOWN FACILITIES
9-26. Some expeditionary or initial bed-down facilities are located within a base camp after base
development begins. The CCDR may choose to develop some base camps very early in a campaign or
operation so that some bed-down facilities are within base camps from the start. Bases and base camps
support the reception, bed-down, and employment of personnel, equipment, and logistics. Bed-down
facilities are expeditionary or initial operating facilities with construction standards designated by the CCDR.
Force bed-down facilities include billeting, dining halls, religious support facilities, medical clinics, hygiene
facilities, motor pools, and aircraft facilities.
9-27. The planning for bed-down is fully integrated with the CCDR basing strategy, since some of these
initial facilities will later be expanded and upgraded. Life cycle planning flows from bed-down, to a scheme
of base camps, to transfer or close. The information generated from master planning facilitates future cost
benefit analyses that enable decision-making for other aspects of base camp activities. See AR 210-20 for
additional information on real property master planning for Army installations for considerations that can be
applied to contingency operations.

BASE CAMP DOCTRINE
9-28. The base camp life cycle, classification system, principles, and functional areas are discussed below.
See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for additional information on base camp doctrine.

Base Camp Life Cycle
9-29. The base camp life cycle embodies the major activities that are involved in base camps. These activities
are mutually reinforcing, not mutually exclusive, and include—
 Strategic system and policy integration.
 Planning and design.
 Construction.
 Operations.
 Transfer and closure.
 Command and control.

Base Camp Classification System
9-30. Base camps are broadly classified by size, level of capabilities, and purpose. This classification system
provides common terminology and a framework that aids the conduct of all base camp life cycle activities.
The four sizes of base camps are extra small, small, medium, and large; each size has a range of population
that the base camp is designed to support. The levels of capabilities are basic, expanded, and enhanced. The
levels of capabilities describe the characteristics of a base camp in terms of support and services (overall
quality of life) that are provided. This includes the nature of the construction effort applied that is
commensurate with the anticipated duration of the mission.
9-31. Base camps are developed to serve a specific purpose (such as an intermediate staging or forward
operating or logistics base or as support for reception, staging, onward movement, integration, training,
detainee processing, and resettlement); or they may be developed to serve a multifunctional purpose. The
designated purpose of the base camp and the operational requirements of tenant units serve as primary guides
in designing the base camp.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-5

Chapter 9

Base Camp Principles
9-32. Successful base camps are characterized by four principles that are incorporated throughout the life
cycle. (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP 3-17.7N]) Commanders and staffs use the base camp
principles as a guide for analytical thinking. These principles are as follows:
 Scalability.
 Sustainability.
 Standardization.
 Survivability.

Base Camp Functional Areas
9-33. Base camp functional areas are related base camp tasks and activities, and they are grouped together
to facilitate planning and execution (see ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP 3-17.7N] for more
information). During mission planning, the base camp functional areas help commanders and staffs organize
the broad range of base camp requirements and the supporting information and tasks required for execution.
The following are the five base camp functional areas:
 Operations.
 Logistics.
 Services.
 Protection.
 Facilities and infrastructure.

STANDARDS
9-34. Table 9-1 provides an example of CCDR construction standards for various types of construction that
guide general engineering activities.
Table 9-1. Sample base camp construction standards
Type of
Construction

Site work

Initial

Temporary

Semipermanent

Minimal to no site
work; maximized
use of existing
facilities

Clearing and grading for facilities
(including drainage and revetments);
petroleum, oil, and lubricants;
ammunition storage; aircraft parking;
aggregate for heavily used hardstands;
and soil stabilization

Engineered site preparation,
including paved surfaces for
vehicle traffic areas and aircraft
parking, building foundations,
and concrete floor slabs

Unit tents

Tents (may have wood frames and
flooring)

Wood frame structures,
relocatable structures and
modular building systems

Tactical power
system

Tactical power system or deployable
prime power system

Sustained power system

Water points and
bladders

Water points, wells, and potable water
production and pressurized water
distribution systems

Limited pressurized water
distribution systems that
support hospitals, dining
facilities, firefighting units, and
other high-volume users

Contracted or unitpurchased

Portable refrigeration with freezer units
for medical, food, and maintenance
storage

Refrigeration installed in
temporary structures

Unit field sanitation
kits, pit latrines

Organic equipment, evaporative ponds,
pit or burnout latrines, lagoons for
hospitals, and sewage lift stations

Waterborne to austere
treatment facilities—priorities
are hospitals, dining facilities,
bathhouses, decontamination
sites, and other high-volume
users

Troop housing
Electricity

Water

Cold storage

Sanitation

9-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

Table 9-1. Sample base camp construction standards (continued)
Type of
Construction
Airfield
pavement1
Fuel storage

Initial

Temporary

Semipermanent

NA

Tactical surfacing, including matting,
aggregate, soil stabilization, and concrete
pads

Conventional pavements

Bladders

Bladders

Bladders and steel tanks

1

The type of airfield surfacing to be used is based on soil conditions and the expected weight and number of aircraft
involved in operations.
Legend:
NA
not applicable

9-35. DOD construction agents are the principal organizations to design, award, and manage construction
contracts in support of some semipermanent facilities and permanent facilities.
9-36. Major construction standards are as follows:
 Semipermanent. Semipermanent construction standards allow for finishes, materials, and
systems selected for moderate energy efficiency, maintenance, and life cycle cost with a life
expectancy of more than 2 years, but less than 10 years.
 Permanent. Permanent construction is designed and constructed with finishes, materials, and
systems selected for high-energy efficiency and low maintenance and life cycle cost. Permanent
construction has a life expectancy of more than 10 years. The CCDR approves permanent
construction.

BASE CAMP DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
9-37. Engineers should be familiar with numerous planning considerations and design factors when planning
the base camp. Major base camp planning and design considerations include the base camp doctrine and
standards highlighted in the previous sections of this manual and also include the following areas:
 Protection. Force protection considerations are critical to the development of base camps.
 Facility standards identification. The CCDR establishes the base camp standard for the JOA by
an OPORD or fragmentary order. These standards are intended to provide the CCDR’s
expectations for base camp living and operating conditions to component commanders.
 Master planning. The CCDR establishes the policies and procedures for developing, approving,
and implementing base camp master planning in the JOA. (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP
3-17.7N] for additional information.)
 Construction management. Responsible components (often USACE, theater engineer command
engineers, or facility engineer teams) will track the development of base camp construction
according to the master plan priorities and report progress.
9-38. Base camp planners should be familiar with the appropriate publications, references, and planning
tools required to develop a base development site plan. A base development site plan is an overlay of a
topographic map or a computer-aided design that shows the location of a future development site and the
planned physical site layouts and locations of required areas (facilities and infrastructure required for a
specific base camp). The base development site plan is dimensioned to scale with plan-view outlines of
proposed buildings, utility systems, road networks, and site improvements and the necessary topographic
features. A base development site plan is prepared as part of the overall base camp development planning.
9-39. Preparing a base development site plan is a team effort and requires multidisciplinary expertise that
links architecture, engineering, military operations planning, protection, the environment, social sciences,
and community planning. It includes a set of interrelated documents that record the planning process involved
in laying out, determining the scope, and initiating implementation actions for a base camp during
contingency operations.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-7

Chapter 9

9-40. There is no right answer in developing a base development site plan. Each base development site plan
is unique and is shaped by the mission; the units it will support; the land upon which it will be developed;
and the respective backgrounds, skills, and contributions of the planning team members. Once the base
development site plan is completed, an action plan is developed for its implementation. The appropriate
CCDR or theater commander designates the proper level of command authority to approve the base
development site plan.
9-41. The decision to establish a base camp is made at any time during the process of planning and executing
a military operation. Ideally, it should be made very early in the process to allow appropriate planning in a
proactive, rather than reactive, environment. USACE usually has the mission to plan or assist in the planning
and development of base camps in support of contingency operations. Engineers and planners should be
prepared to support and assist users (whose first priority is the mission) in making effective base camp site
selection and layout decisions. A base camp could be established in a hostile nation after active combat
actions cease (such as in Iraq), in a friendly nation as a location to be used in the event of a deployment (such
as in Kuwait or Turkey), or in a friendly nation to support active combat operations in a nearby country (such
as in Qatar).
9-42. USACE initiated base camp development planning to assist military planners and establish a process.
Key considerations in base camp development planning include—
 Selecting suitable base camp locations, while coordinating with CCDRs, the Department of State,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, other federal agencies (as appropriate), and the HN.
 Planning and documenting the detailed actions needed for a properly located and sized base camp
that consider related land areas, facilities, utilities, and other factors to provide U.S. forces with
the safest, healthiest, and best living and working conditions.
 Planning and executing the cleanup and closure of a base camp in a manner that meets U.S. and
HN standards or those approved by the theater command.
9-43. The base camp development planning process focuses primarily on the engineer-specific areas of base
camp planning, but also requires team effort contributions from many participants. Base camp planners assist
in the location, design, construction, cleanup, and closure of base camps that support military forces or
governmental organizations across the competition continuum.
9-44. Integral to the base camp development planning process is the expectation that base camp development
has a limited time frame and, therefore, will require rapid planning and fast-track construction. Other factors
(such as rapidly changing military and political situations, parallel missions in the same or neighboring
regions, or a reintroduction of combat operations into the target area of the proposed base camp) may require
the steps in the planning process to be altered. Also, the requirement to serve HN needs and address concerns
regarding the establishment of a single base camp or a series of base camps may change the described steps
of the planning process and the options influencing flexibility within each planning step. The intended lifespan of the facilities and infrastructure of a base camp depends on mission-driven and economic decisions.
A likely component of this effort is the FFE support that USACE will provide to the tactical commanders
who determine the need for a base camp.
9-45. The base camp development planning process is a time sensitive and mission driven, cyclical planning
process that determines and documents the physical layout of properly located, sized, and interrelated land
areas, facilities, utilities, and other factors to achieve maximum mission effectiveness, maintainability, and
expansion capability in theater. The base camp development planning process is depicted in figure 9-1.
Planners rarely perform these steps in exact sequence; consequently, numbers are not assigned to these steps.
At times, planners may enter the process when it is well under way, since planning is iterative and intuitive
in nature. See EP 1105-3-1 for more information on base camp development planning.

9-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

Figure 9-1. Base camp development planning process
9-46. The base camp development planning process requires a multidisciplinary, multistaff team approach
to efficiently identify, analyze, and develop workable solutions to the many challenges that will require
addressing. Base camp planning team members may consist of commanders and staffs from the units that
will occupy, or may already be occupying, the base camp; operational planners and protection experts; civil
affairs specialists; technical experts in engineering and other design professions; environmental and
preventive medicine experts; resource managers; range and training experts; program analysts; contracting,
real estate, and other legal specialists; and HN planners. In other words, organizations that have a major role
or will impact the base camp development planning should be included in the team.
9-47. The base camp development planning process is an iterative process that is continuous; it is not finished
until the facilities and land are turned back over to the HN. Base camp development plans are shaped to
improve base camp living and working conditions. For example—
 Tents convert to shelters; shelters convert to buildings.
 Field sanitation converts to chemicals; chemicals convert to waterborne systems.
9-48. All levels of command are involved in real property planning and its related facility programming
actions. Therefore, base camp development planning is reviewed and approved by the base camp commander
or designated representative by means of a base camp planning board and by higher echelons as appropriate.
This procedure has the added advantage of serving as a check and balance against hasty or capricious
planning. The additional technical review and approval of development plans for specialized projects and
facilities (such as the planning of munitions storage and handling facilities, ranges and training areas, and
high-security and aviation facilities) are required.
9-49. Base camp development planners should consider the objective end state condition of the base camp
facilities and the land area it occupies from the very start of the planning process. Initial agreements should
address the cleanup, closure, and disposal or turnover of facilities to the HN that were once occupied by U.S.
forces. The objective condition of formerly occupied land is defined, because in many cases, the original
owners want it returned in the same condition that it was in prior to U.S. occupancy.
Note. The JCMS is the official tool for base camp development planning and design.

FACILITY PLANNING AND DESIGN
9-50. Adequate bed-down, base camp, and support area facilities are as vital across the competition
continuum as they are critical to sustainment. Engineers at the strategic, operational, and tactical levels
construct, maintain, and repair facilities for receiving, storing, and distributing all classes of supply and
supporting all other logistics functions. Engineers are involved in the procurement, construction,
maintenance, and repair of logistics facilities and associated environmental considerations for general supply
and the more specialized purpose of storing munitions.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-9

Chapter 9

9-51. Engineers tasked to support logistics installations have four major missions: provide new facilities,
maintain existing facilities, recover and repair facilities damaged by hostile actions, and upgrade existing
facilities to meet minimum standards or usage requirements. In some CCDR area of responsibility, peacetime
construction and HN agreements have provided extensive facilities. In less-developed theaters, there may be
no preexisting logistics facilities. In such theaters, adapting and converting commercial property to military
use or constructing new facilities may be required to provide logistic support facilities.
9-52. Due to the magnitude of new construction and maintenance and repair of existing infrastructure
generally associated with support facilities, it is recommended that planners and designers research the
applicable Army regulations, Department of the Army pamphlets, doctrine manuals, UFC, standard design
guides, technical manuals, and other applicable guidance. This includes—
 AR 415-16.
 TM 5-301-2.
 TM 5-301-4.
 TM 5-304.
 UFC 4 series.

PLANNING FACTORS
9-53. The ASCC engineer staff and subordinate commands rely heavily on FFE, in the form of forward
deployment and reachback, to accomplish base camp design, construction, and management functions. The
facilities engineering team is ideally suited to serve as a directorate of public works for a base camp in a
contingency operation (see FM 3-34 for a discussion on the teams and resources available).
Note. Planning factors can be found in ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N).

BASE CAMP PLANNING AND DESIGN
9-54. There is no single correct design to a base camp. There are many possible designs and variations that
are efficient and functional. Specific variables include whether the constructing unit will be—
 Occupying existing facilities or building from the ground up.
 Using local labor and materials or bringing them in from other nations.
 Using a standards book or specific commander’s guidance.
9-55. The design also considers the operational aspects of the base camp and includes base camp land use
categories that will support the purpose of the base camp. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 317.7N) for information on base camp land use categories.
9-56. To determine the requirements for land, facilities, and infrastructure, base camp development planners
assess the mission, population, purpose, lifespan, construction standards, and commander’s guidance.

Population
9-57. The base camp population includes tenant and transient units and organizations, which can include
U.S., multinational, and HN personnel, units, and organizations (CAAF and non-CAAF). Transient units and
organizations are those that come to the base camp for specified services and support, which may not
necessarily require overnight stays. Determining the number of transients that a base camp will serve is a
critical factor in accurately identifying requirements for base camp facilities, infrastructure, services, and
support. Sources of population data for a base camp include—
 Table of organization and equipment documents.
 Table of distribution and allowance documents.
 Nonappropriated fund documents and other U.S. government documents that provide data on
segments of the population, such as contractor personnel and local national employees.
 The time-phased force and deployment list.
 The civilian tracking system, which provides information regarding U.S. civilians present or
scheduled to be present in theater.

9-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities








U.S. government contracting documents that authorize U.S. and foreign contractors and HN
employees. Add a personnel count to the personnel count of the assigned military units to
determine the total planned population of a proposed base camp.
The purpose or reason for using the facility to support the mission.
The projected service life for the use of the facility.
Construction standards as found in UFC and local building codes.
Commander’s guidance as outlined in the OPLAN or OPORD.

Fire Protection
9-58. Plan fire protection into the design of all base camps. Tent separations, wiring standards, and Soldier
or Marine education are all critical components in reducing or preventing base campfires and mitigating their
effects on Soldiers, Marines, and equipment. On a historical note, more than 50 tents in Kuwait were lost due
to fires during Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraq Freedom. Most fires were due to improper
electrical wiring connections and involved contractor-supplied tents that lacked the same flame-retardant
material that military-issued tents have. A lack of proper spacing, cleanliness, unit discipline, fire protection
equipment, and training contribute to fire hazard.
Note. It is possible to retrofit tents that are not flame-retardant.

Utilities
9-59. Design utility systems based on current applicable UFC, technical manuals, and guidance. Use
engineering calculations to determine the size system employed. Where economically supportable and
practicable, electric grids should be connected to commercial power. Smaller or remote bases should
construct central power plants or micro-grids that are capable of supporting 125 percent of the camp
maximum demand load or use distributed generators of sufficient capacity to support maximum demand
loads. When stand-alone, distributed generators are the main power source, size them so that no generator
set is loaded at less than 50 percent output capacity.
9-60. Base camp utilities should be tied into local municipalities if it is economically reliable, feasible and
if they meet clean energy, health, and other protection standards. There should be a minimum of two wells
per camp—one primary and one backup (located within the camp boundaries). The last choice is to use the
tactical water purification systems, potable-water trucks, or bottled water.

Land Use Plan
9-61. A land use plan depicts general locations for areas in relation to any existing development patterns and
any existing major constraints identified by earlier data analysis. A land use plan should lay out the basic
scheme for main vehicular and rail networks, and it should designate the most advantageous locations and
alignments for the mains, sub-stations, and plants associated with the utility systems. Land use relationships
should achieve the most efficient arrangement of functions, should resolve existing problems, and should
provide logical and desirable locations for all mission and functional requirements. Use the distances shown
in Table 9-2, page 9-12, as minimum spacing for specific types of facilities. Drainage planning is done up
front based on rainfall expectations over the duration of occupancy.

PLANNING AND DESIGN OF OTHER BED-DOWN FACILITIES
9-62. Support area facilities in a contingency operation can vary widely. The simplest facility may be a
hardstand surface with rudimentary surface drainage and a supporting road system. More complex
installations may look like urban industrial parks and include warehouses; maintenance and repair facilities;
water, sewage, and electrical utilities; refrigeration or other climate control capability; and supporting roads,
railroads, ports, airfields, protective fencing, fire services, personnel, and support and administration
facilities. Logistics installations include general, ammunition, and maintenance depots; storage sites (to
include fuel storage); and hospitals.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-11

Chapter 9

9-63. It is necessary to determine requirements for time-phased facility construction, war damage repair,
construction material, and other engineering needs for supporting deployed forces. In developing and
evaluating alternatives, planning should result in—
 The determination of critical requirements, duration of construction projects, and acquisition of
information for scheduling and requisitioning.
 A logical task sequence based on the priorities necessary to accomplish the mission.
 An accurate estimate of required materials and labor that takes into account HN guidelines and
resources.
 The determination of command and support relationships, providing for engineering coordination
throughout the theater or area of operations.
 The identification method for controlling the situation as it develops or changes.
 The identification of environmental considerations that may impact planning decisions.
 Compliance with meeting the commander’s guidance if possible.

Helipad

Maintenance

Parking Lot

Roads

Billets

60 kilowatt
Generator

Bulk Fuel

Potable Water

Wastewater

Laundry

Food Service

300

300

500

200

200

15

200

50

300

100

200

0

50

300

Food service

300

300

500

300

300

15

200

50

300

50

200

300

300

Laundry

300

300

500

200

200

15

200

50

300

50

200

50

Shower

300

300

500

200

200

15

200

50

300

50

300

Wastewater

300

200

300

200

200

15

200

50

200

300

Potable
water

300

200

300

300

300

15

200

50

200

Bulk fuel

300

500

300

200

200

15

200

200

Generators

50

300

300

50

200

15

50

Billets

300

200

500

200

200

15

Roads

15

15

300

15

15

Parking lot

200

200

300

50

Maintenance

300

300

300

Helipad

300

300

Ammunition

300

Solid waste

9-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Latrine

Ammunition

Latrine

Facility

Shower

Solid Waste

Table 9-2. Minimum distances between facilities (in feet)

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

CONVERSION OF EXISTING FACILITIES
9-64. The use and modification of existing facilities are more advantageous than pursuing new construction
based on the availability of time, labor, and materials. HN agreements may require compensation for using
or converting such facilities. Engineers, HN parties, and civilian contractors are encouraged to use ingenuity,
imagination, and inventiveness to adapt existing facilities for military use.
9-65. A cost benefit analysis will be one of the factors used to determine if new construction is more prudent
or appropriate. An infrastructure reconnaissance (assessment or survey) is recommended to document the
condition of, and preexisting deficiencies in, existing structures adapted for military use. Conducting an EBS
and OESHA together is highly recommended to ensure that HAZMAT, which can endanger Soldier or
Marine health, is not present in the existing structures or their surrounding areas and to limit claims against
the U.S. government later in the life of the facility. The EBS and OESHA are completed as soon as possible
if they cannot be coordinated before the area is inhabited.

CONSTRUCTION
9-66. The CCDR, JFC, and ASCC/MCCC with Title 10 USC responsibilities identify the minimum-essential
engineering and construction requirements for facilities, including the new construction and repair of wardamaged facilities. For the ASCC, the theater engineer command is normally responsible for planning,
prioritizing, and tasking subordinate units for project execution. The theater engineer command can provide
construction assistance and restoration support to the other Services when assets are available or as directed
by the ASCC/MCCC. Support may also be provided to allied forces when they are assisting U.S. objectives.
The CCDR or JFC may designate a regional wartime theater construction manager to coordinate and
prioritize engineer construction activities of Services in a geographic area.

SITE SELECTION AND LAYOUT
9-67. Planners conduct a preliminary reconnaissance (initially a map reconnaissance) that is usually followed
by a field reconnaissance. The field reconnaissance team may be composed of, but not limited to,
representatives of the units that the facility will support, the operations staff officer (S-3) of the unit
responsible for construction, a command group representative, a civil affairs personnel representative, other
specialists (real estate, medical, chemical, radiological, nuclear, legal, environmental) as required, and a
representative of the HN. For more climate-specific guidance, see ATP 3-90.97, ATP 3-90.98/MCTP
12-10C, and ATP 3-90.99/MCTP 12-10D.

Site Selection
9-68. Site selection and layout are shared responsibilities between the engineer and architects and the site
user. The engineer, protection officer, operations officer, and logistician may each have their own ideal site
location, but trade-offs are made based on a priority of criteria or restrictions.
9-69. Emphasis should be placed on the—
 Tactical situation.
 Capability to defend the site.
 Local terrain features.
 Distance from population centers.
 Availability of suitable existing facilities that may be occupied immediately or modified to desired
specifications.
 Environmental restrictions that may limit the size of the required facility. (These may be caused
by weather or HN policies.)
 Other environmental considerations that may affect facility locations, designs, or requirements.
 Accessibility to projected traffic.
 Distance from road networks.
 Availability of construction materials and local labor assets.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-13

Chapter 9




Local weather conditions and climatic extremes that may demand refrigeration or other climate
control measures.
Potential mission expansion and surge requirements.

Layout
9-70. When locating and positioning each support area facility, the commander evaluates all information
gathered in the planning and reconnaissance phases. Once the commander or designated representative has
finalized a decision on where the installation is to be built, the engineer develops a construction plan that
takes into consideration the location and available resources (military, HN, or contract construction
personnel, materials, and equipment). The layout should be well communicated, coordinated, and organized
in such a way that it can be completed in time to meet the operational priorities and minimize future
controversies.
9-71. Internal operating efficiency may also be considered in the facility layout. The JCMS and AFCS
illustrate typical standardized installation layouts. New construction and use of nonstandard designs must be
held to a minimum. When feasible, facility requirements must be met first by the use of existing facilities
(United States and HN), organic unit shelters, and portable or relocatable facility substitutes.
9-72. The standards for new construction (initial or temporary) are dictated by the CCDR or ASCC/MCCC
based on the expected duration of use, availability of materials, man-hours of construction effort, and material
cost. Locally available materials may dictate design and construction criteria. Plans are provided for many
supply and maintenance facilities in the JCMS. Modification may be required to adapt to local conditions.
Consult the contingency location master list and enduring location master list for specific guidance on
building standards at known base locations.

SPECIFIC FACILITIES WITHIN BASE CAMPS
9-73. Other facilities that may be contained in base camps include housing, administration and support,
ammunition and storage, medical treatment, dislocated civilian camps, and detention facilities. See U.S.
Army European Command Regulation 420-100 as an example for theater basing standards.

Housing Facilities
9-74. Army Europe Regulation 420-100 and United States Central Command Regulation 415-1 are examples
of CCDR guidance that provide very specific recommended minimum planning factors and construction
standards for facilities within base camps. The Southeast Asia hut is a frequently used solution for bed-down
and base camp facilities (see figure 9-2).
9-75. Southeast Asia huts, as shown in a cluster configuration in figure 9-2, are 512 square feet (16 feet x 32
feet). A Southeast Asia hut has eight 110- or 220-volt electrical outlets. Normally, there is an environmental
control unit on each end for climate control. A Southeast Asia hut is constructed of wood with a sheet vinyl
floor, 5/8-inch gypsum walls and ceiling, flat latex paint, metal roof, precast concrete pilings, painted exterior,
and a nail board 6 feet above the floor (which allows Soldiers or Marines to put a nail on the wall to hang
things).
9-76. A variation of the Southeast Asia hut is the Davidson Southeast Asia hut, which combines six Southeast
Asia huts to save materials. When in a Davidson configuration, there are five Southeast Asia hut units, with
one 12-foot by 32-foot latrine, for a total of 2,944 square feet of enclosed space. There is a 5-foot-wide
walkway on each side. An administrative configuration has 3,072 square feet, but the latrines only take up
256 square feet. It has walkways all around the building. The entire footprint is 42 feet by 106 feet, including
walkways.

Life Support Areas
9-77. A standard life support area has 20 tent, extendable, modular, personnel tents in various configurations.
The large spacing between tents is for fire lanes and to allow cranes and other heavy equipment to move
around to service air conditioners without damaging the existing tents or wires. The wide fire lanes also
double as firebreaks and allow maneuver room for firefighting equipment.

9-14

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

9-78. Wooden buildups should not be constructed on or inside the tents, as the wind tends to drag the tent
fabric across the rough wooden edges, causing the tents to be destroyed. The tent city has a 4-inch (100millimeter) gravel pad surrounded by a ditch. The ditch is for drainage when it rains and to separate the nodrive area of the life support area from the rest of the camp. The size and depth of the ditch should be adequate
to contain anticipated local rainfall and runoff and to prevent vehicular traffic from entering and exiting at
nondesignated points across the ditch. Geotextile is normally not used to construct ditches.

Note. Each SEA hut is 16’ x 32’, same size as a general purpose medium tent.
Legend:
SEA
Southeast Asia

Figure 9-2. Southeast Asia hut company cluster

Surge Housing
9-79. Base camps should maintain the ability to expand to house an additional 10 percent of the total
population as transients and surges. During surge periods that exceed 10 percent, Tier 2 tents (maximum)
will be used for housing. The definition of construction standards for tents includes—
 Tier 1. Tier 1 consists of a general-purpose, medium field tent with plywood floor panels.
 Tier 2. Tier 2 consists of a general-purpose, medium field tent with plywood floor panels, two
electrical light fixtures, two electrical outlets, and space heaters.
 Tier 3. Tier 3 consists of a general-purpose, medium field tent with a full wooden tent frame,
plywood panel sidewalls, raised insulated flooring, four electrical light fixtures, eight electrical
outlets, and space heaters.

Toilet and Shower Facilities
9-80. Toilet and shower facilities are normally lighted, heated, and equipped with running hot and cold water.
A sanitary wall board is the preferred wall covering for latrines. Sheetrock, if used, should be waterproof,
with a waterproof finish for cleaning. The female-to-male facility ratio will be based on the actual percentage
of the sexes on a base camp at the current time or anticipated for the near future. The shower and toilet
construction goals for base camps are as follows:
 Showers. A shower head per population ratio of 1:20–1:10.
 Toilets. A toilet per population ratio of 1:20–1:10.
Note. Considerations should be given to shower water reuse systems or other water reuse systems.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-15

Chapter 9

Administrative and Support Facilities
9-81. See AFCS or JCMS and ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for specific details on
constructing administrative and support facilities.

Ammunition Supply and Storage Facilities
9-82. A mature theater requires a network of ammunition supply and storage facilities. Well-situated and
-stocked ammunition supply and storage facilities are critical to the timely distribution of required munitions.
Ammunition must be stored with maximum attention to protection against natural and man-made threats,
including accidents caused by careless storage and handling. Class V and Class V (aircraft ordnance) supply
items are explosive and often contain sensitive components.
9-83. Properly designed, constructed, ventilated, and maintained ammunition supply and storage facilities
help limit the possibility of accidents. Appropriate storage ensures maximum serviceability and shelf life of
stocks and keeps maintenance requirements to a bare minimum. Planners must address concerns contained
in DA Pam 385-64 or NAVSEA OP-5 Volumes 1 and 3 to ensure the effective and safe storage of
ammunition.
Theater Ammunition Storage Locations
9-84. A combat service support sustainment brigade, augmented with a theater distribution element, provides
the distribution of theater munitions. Ammunition may be pushed forward to combat service support battalion
ordnance ammunition units, where further distribution is made to forward ammunition supply points. These
are located in a secure area. Units may then draw directly from ammunition supply points. Ammunition may
be brought further forward to ammunition transfer holding points, where munitions are transferred from corps
haul assets to user resupply vehicles. Generally, the farther to the rear the ammunition facility is, the more
elaborate the construction and the more extensive the construction support required.
Ammunition Storage Planning Considerations
9-85. Planners must consider a number of factors when they are designing ammunition supply and storage
facilities. Planning considerations include—
 Drainage. Munitions can be damaged by excessive moisture and must be kept dry. Proper grading
and, where possible, the planning and installation of drainage facilities in the area of the
ammunition facility will divert rainfall, flash floods, and groundwater away from ammunition
stacks.
 Shelter. Ammunition and explosives must be well sheltered and properly protected from the
elements and the enemy. Depending on the situation and the assets available, these shelters may
range from approved steel to arch earth-mounded igloos, to an outdoor modular storage system
reinforced with earthwork berms. These systems are discussed in ATP 4-35.1.
 Ventilation. Adequate ventilation is required to protect stocks from moisture and to prevent the
buildup of toxic and combustible gases.
 Size. The size of the facility depends on the kinds and quantities of munitions being handled and
local supply demands. The facility size is determined by the logistics unit commander, based on
standards set forth in DA Pam 385-64 or NAVSEA OP-5 Volumes 1 and 3 and the tactical
situation.
 Vehicle access. Vehicles that use the ammunition facility must be able to travel to and from the
appropriate pickup points. Road networks and traffic flow patterns inside the facility must support
concurrent resupply and provide for the rapid evacuation of all vehicles in case of emergency.
Firefighting equipment must have ready access to all parts of the facility.
 Water supply. Water tanks and reservoirs must be located in key centralized areas to properly
support firefighting activities.
 Facility protection. The adequate protection of an ammunition facility may be provided through
a combination of facility hardening and dispersion and active and passive security measures.
Generally, the area damage control plan will stipulate what specific measures must be taken
before, during, and after a damage incident and who will be responsible for each measure.

9-16

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities




Environmental considerations. With its associated force health protection, environmental
considerations are an aspect of protection that must be properly planned and evaluated.
Adjacent property use. Present and potential future uses are important. Deeds of restriction may
be required for adjacent properties near the ammunition storage areas to reduce premature
detonation caused by outside hazards.

Ammunition Storage Site Selection
9-86. The logistics unit commander determines the best location for ammunition supply points that best
supports the scheme of maneuver and meets the commander’s intent. The ammunition supply points should
be located within a reasonable support distance of maneuver elements, and it is desirable to place the
ammunition supply points near an established MSR (road or rail) to facilitate transportation network access,
stocking, and distribution. Considerations should be given to the characteristics of stored material relative to
major facilities such as airfields; petroleum, oils, and lubricant storage facilities; or ports. Taking this
precaution will reduce the overall extent of massive collateral destruction if the enemy targets other facilities.
Having input from ammunition personnel on the net explosive weight of planned ammunition stored at each
site is crucial to ensuring the safety of all personnel in the surrounding areas. See Department of Defense
Safety Regulation 6055.9 and Ordnance Pamphlet 5, Volumes I and II, for additional information on munition
storage.
9-87. Ideally, choosing a location with level terrain, existing natural barriers, and good drainage is preferable.
This will serve to minimize earthwork cut and fill requirements. If possible, existing facilities or structures
suitable for conversion to storage areas should be used first before pursuing new construction.
9-88. The engineer advises the logistics unit commander on such matters as the location of construction
materials, topography, drainage, and the condition of local road and bridge networks. Consideration must
also be given to security measures and the ease of defense. Where possible, sites should provide a decent
defilade to provide concealment from direct enemy observation.
9-89. The specific layout of an ammunition supply or storage facility depends on the tactical situation,
terrain, and type and amount of ammunition being handled. Engineers supporting the construction of
ammunition supply and storage facilities advise the appropriate commander on construction and maintenance
matters. If required by the urgency of the tactical situation, the facility may be required to receive and issue
ammunition before construction is complete.
9-90. Engineers may have to alter construction plans and techniques to allow for the safe and efficient
handling of ammunition while construction proceeds. Ammunition storage facilities are ideally arranged in
dispersed storage areas. The separation of facilities provides greater protective dispersion; expedites the
handling, receipt, and issue of materials; and facilitates inventory management and segregation.
9-91. The road network is designed so that each area can be entered and exited independently. This prevents
crossing traffic in all areas. Firebreaks wide enough (50 feet minimum) to prevent fires from spreading should
be constructed and maintained. Soil that contains enough organic matter to allow it to easily burn must be
excavated to the mineral subsoil. However, since firebreaks around ammunition stacks are easily detected by
aerial reconnaissance, their use may have to be restricted or camouflaged.
9-92. Existing buildings may be used for ammunition storage as long as the rated floor has sufficient loadbearing capacity. Chemical, incendiary, and white phosphorus rounds should not be stored on wooden floors
since they are a fire hazard. Ammunition and explosives may be stored outdoors according to DA Pam
385-64 or NAVSEA OP-5 Volumes 1 and 3, which detail site and layout requirements for the outdoor storage
of ammunition. Ammunition and explosives may be stored temporarily on vehicles for adequate dispersion
and rapid deployment.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-17

Chapter 9

9-93. The effects imposed by local weather and climate conditions must be taken into consideration in the
design and construction of ammunition storage facilities. Drainage is an important consideration in certain
climates and areas, including desert environments. Key planning considerations include the following:
 Desert. The need for dispersion is extremely important since natural concealment is generally
quite sparse. Shadows and regular-shaped patterns are conspicuous and can be avoided by the use
of small, irregular stacks and the elimination of regular lines and rows. In this environment,
engineers are seldom required to develop extensive road networks.
 Cold climates. Care must be taken to provide adequate dunnage for ammunition storage.
Defilades must be avoided because they may be susceptible to natural flooding after a thaw.
Engineer assets may be required to clear and maintain the road network in snow and icy conditions
(see TM 3-34.48-1).
 Wet climates. Particularly in the tropics, the maximum effort must be made to combat the effects
of moisture. Adequate shelter, dunnage, and ventilation must be provided.
 Very hot and very cold areas. Static electricity is an important consideration.
Ammunition Storage Construction
9-94. Engineer units have the following construction responsibilities when supporting ammunition supply
and storage:
 Reconnaissance, improvement, and construction of roads and bridges, which provide access to,
and egress from, the ammunition facility. Engineers will also construct internal road networks
within the facility.
 Location of local water sources for firefighting, construction of required reservoirs, and a water
distribution system.
 Construction of standard ammunition storage magazines for indoor storage and berms and pads
for outdoor storage. Engineers may be tasked to supply appropriate dunnage for ammunition
stacks according to DA Pam 385-64 or NAVSEA OP-5 Volumes 1 and 3.
 Construction of housing and support facilities for ammunition facility personnel and security
forces. This includes associated power and sanitation requirements.
 Construction and maintenance of perimeter security fences or other required security,
infrastructure protection, and protection measures.
 Construction of firebreaks in and around the facility.
 Staff proponency for the integration of environmental considerations and the linkage to the
surgeon on matters of the included force health protection issues.
 Adequate lightening protection system plans and installation.

Medical Treatment Facilities
9-95. Regardless of the size, intensity, or duration of a conflict, medical treatment facilities are needed within
base camps. With the fielding of deployable medical systems equipment to the intermediate staging base and
area of operations, construction requirements are greatly reduced. However, the requirements for site
preparation remain high. The following are some of the planning considerations for establishing medical
facilities:
 Site preparation.
 Trash and garbage pits.
 Soakage pits or a liquid disposal system.
 Incinerators (in addition to solid-waste requirements).
 Facilities such as showers, latrines, laundry services, food preparation, and dining.
 Water distribution.
 Hazardous-waste accumulation, storage, and disposal.
 Regulated medical-waste accumulation, storage, and disposal to include testing and disposal of
ashes if incinerating waste.
 Motor vehicle parking.

9-18

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities






Landing zones.
Perimeter security.
Fuel storage.
Power system support.

9-96. The longer the anticipated duration of the conflict, the greater the need to support medical treatment
through fixed facilities. While medical facilities always entail a considerable amount of environmental
considerations in temporary and fixed facilities, the importance of these considerations will increase over
time and they should be applied as early as possible. These facilities are designed and built with the capacity
and means to adequately treat injuries, shelter-in-place in case of HAZMAT release, and other health
problems sustained during the contingency.
9-97. Medical treatment facilities must facilitate rapid, high-quality treatment within the theater to expedite
Service member return to duty. In addition, U.S. forces are responsible for the well-being of enemy prisoners
of war, DOD employees, contractors, and other nonmilitary personnel who accompany combat forces, such
as the mass media and nongovernmental organizations. The emergency treatment of allied Service members
or the civilian population may also be required.
Health Service Support System
9-98. In the absence of a deployable medical system-equipped hospital, consider the use of an existing
facility that was originally designed as a medical treatment facility or is readily adaptable to use as a medical
treatment facility. Attention to the types of buildings, their potential patient capacity, and their effective use
prior to the conduct of an operation may result in the selection and use of facilities that will save precious
time and resources. Requirements for fixed facilities are generally restricted to the intermediate staging base,
where hospital units do not move in conjunction with the redeployment of major tactical units. USACE has
the capability of providing contingency real estate support teams that can assist in real estate matters and
deploy in support of these requirements. The forward engineer support team–main provides the localized
command for USACE teams in the operational area and provides sustained USACE engineering execution
capabilities within the operational area. Its capability includes real estate acquisition and disposal. See FM
3-34 and JP 3-34 for information on the USACE role in real estate support.
9-99. The degree of permanence may range from an expeditionary field hospital to a semipermanent hospital
center, to the permanent construction of an Air Force theater hospital. Site selection is the responsibility of
health service support planners who, in turn, must coordinate with the logistics staff officer. The logistics
staff officer allocates the site and coordinates for the required support. These facilities should be located so
that patients can be brought in by ground and air ambulance and can be transferred within the intermediate
staging base in preparation for intra- or inter-theater medical evacuation. Inter-theater medical evacuation
will require quick access to airfields to transfer patients onto fixed wing aircraft. It is highly desirable to
choose locations near ground transportation networks and air terminals.
9-100. Hospitals may also be located to support high-density troop populations. Medical treatment facility
requirements are based on casualty estimates and the theater patient evacuation policy. Casualty estimates
are derived from the number of personnel deployed, as well as environmental and combat intensity planning
factors. Casualty estimates are prepared by the personnel staff officer/assistant chief of staff, personnel. The
patient medical workload is determined by the Army Health System support planner system. The theater
evacuation policy establishes the number of days that patients may be held within the theater for treatment
before they return to duty, convalescence, or are evacuated to a facility outside the AOR.
9-101. Shortcomings in existing hospital facilities and new requirements must be identified so that
construction or rehabilitation can begin. Except when they are located in existing structures, Army hospitals
require more than three days before they become fully functional. Once established, they can be moved only
with substantial difficulty and time-consuming effort. JCMS or AFCS contains bills of materials, estimates
of construction labor-hours, and plans for hospital facilities and associated clinics.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-19

Chapter 9

Medical Treatment Facility Planning
9-102. Ideally, the best sites for medical treatment facilities have preexisting utilities, such as a potablewater supply, sewage disposal, and electrical power. When new medical treatment facility construction must
be initiated, the site should be on a relative geospatial high point, with subsoil that is free draining. The site
should be isolated from areas where sanitation may be difficult, away from noise, smoke, odors, and other
nuisances.
9-103. The site should be located in an area that is conducive to expansion and safe for storing fuel needed
for auxiliary power generation equipment. The site should also be located near waste collection facilities that
can easily accommodate large volumes of contaminated material, including discarded food products and
contaminated solids. The principles of phased construction will be enforced.
9-104. Lower-priority, complementary facilities near a medical treatment facility may include a helicopter
landing site, waste collection facilities, motor pools, laundry areas, vehicle parking areas, supply receiving
and shipping facilities, and recreation areas. Even though waste collection facilities have low priority at the
initial planning phase, the importance of this facility increases in direct proportion to the intensity and
duration of the conflict since vast amounts of contaminated waste may be generated.
9-105. Expedient methods for disposing of contaminated waste must be considered during the initial stages
of planning. Such efforts must be designed to avoid any possibility of contaminating ground water supplies.
Expedient methods of landfills and incinerators should be planned to enhance medical treatment facilities.
These methods should also be planned for semifixed facilities to prevent contamination of the groundwater
supply, thus potentially exposing patients, and staff to infections.

Medical Treatment Facilities Protection
9-106. Precautionary measures taken to prevent or minimize medical treatment facility damage as a result
of natural disasters, accidents, and enemy activity are specified in the area damage control plan. A medical
treatment facility should not be located immediately adjacent to potential tactical targets such as airfields;
ammunition supply and storage facilities; petroleum, oils, and lubricant storage facilities; and major bridges.
When the medical treatment facility must lie within an established defensive position, it should be located
away from the outer perimeter and away from critical infrastructure. If the lack of camouflage endangers or
compromises tactical operations, the camouflage of the MTF may be ordered by a NATO commander of at
least brigade-level or equivalent. North Atlantic Treaty Organization STANAG 2931 provides for
camouflage of the Geneva emblem and Red Crescent on medical facilities where the lack of camouflage
might compromise tactical operations. Camouflage of the Red Cross means covering it up or taking it down.
For an in-depth discussion of the Law of Land Warfare refer to FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C.

Detention Facilities and Dislocated Civilian Camps
9-107. Commanders should plan for expeditious facility and camp construction. Detention facilities and
dislocated civilian camps are set up and operated the same as any basic base camp (see ATP 3-37.10/MCRP
3-40D.13). The basic planning criterion for all base camps is valid for detainee facilities and dislocated
civilian camps; however, there are specialized considerations that must be added to that baseline criterion.
Note. Detention facilities and dislocated civilian camp construction standards, bills of material,
and estimates of construction labor-hours are contained in the JCMS and AFCS. The length of
time that the facility will operate must be considered when determining the standard of
construction. In addition, engineers must complete an EBS, in conjunction with an EHSA, for the
site.

9-20

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

Detention Facilities
9-108. Detention involves the detainment of a population or group that poses some level of threat to military
operations. Detention operations are conducted by military police to shelter, sustain, guard, protect, and
account for populations (detainees or U.S. military prisoners) as a result of military or civil conflict or to
facilitate criminal prosecution. U.S military prisoners and detainees must be housed in separate facilities.
9-109. Battlefield detention and confinement facilities are capable of providing the necessary pretrial and
post-trial confinement for U.S. military prisoners, DOD Civilian employees, DOD contractor personnel, and
other persons serving with (or authorized to accompany) the U.S. military during declared war and in
contingency operations. A field confinement facility is established at the theater level and is responsible for
longer term confinement before the evacuation of U.S. military prisoners from the theater. Field detention
facilities are possible as low as the BCT level. See FM 3-39 for additional information on battlefield detention
and confinement facilities and planning considerations.
9-110. Detainee facilities are classified as detainee collection points, detainee holding areas, or theater
detainee facilities. All three facilities are built to directed construction standards and vary in size and capacity,
depending on the number and classification of detainees. Under certain circumstances, semipermanent
facility construction may be authorized. As with any construction, existing facilities that can be used directly
or modified with a justifiable effort are preferable to new construction. See FM 3-63 for additional
information on detainee facilities and planning considerations.
Dislocated Civilian Camps
9-111. Dislocated civilian is a broad term primarily used by the DOD that includes a displaced person, an
evacuee, an internally displaced person, a migrant, a refugee, or a stateless person (JP 3-29). Legal and
political considerations define these categories. Dislocated civilians are removed from or leave their homes
or places of habitual residence for reasons such as fear of persecution or to avoid the effects of armed conflict,
situations of generalized violence, violations of human rights, natural or man-made disasters, or economic
privation.
9-112. The requirement to establish a dislocated civilian camp may occur across the range of military
operations. Although the United Nations or other international organizations and NGOs typically build and
operate dislocated civilian camps and provide basic assistance and services to the affected population, U.S.
military forces may be tasked to perform this mission. Establishing dislocated civilian camps requires a
combined arms approach to harness the necessary expertise in a variety of fields such as logistics,
engineering, protection, CA, environmental conditions, preventive medicine, military police, and resource
management. For additional information on dislocated civilian planning considerations for dislocated civilian
camps see ATP 3-39.30 and ATP 3-57.10.
9-113. Resettlement is conducted by military police to shelter, sustain, guard, protect, and account for
dislocated civilians as a result of military or civil conflict or natural or man-made disasters. Resettlement
includes dislocated civilians, refugees, migrants, expellees, internally displaced persons, evacuees, and
stateless persons.
9-114. General engineers may be required to support the construction of detention or resettlement facilities.
See FM 3-63 for additional information on detention facility designs and logistics considerations.
9-115. Depending on the duration and extent of the conflict, requirements for the evacuation of internees
may warrant the establishment of internee holding areas within the corps area and semipermanent detainee
facilities within more secure locations. Further evacuation to semipermanent or permanent facilities outside
the area of operations may also require provisions for total evacuation. The discussion of detainee facilities
in this chapter is limited to the BCT, BLT, division, and theater levels. Generally, internees are evacuated for
their own safety, for interrogation, for medical treatment, or to relieve troops in the capturing unit.
9-116. Once detainees are gathered at detainee facilities, they may constitute a pool of potential labor assets.
They are, however, subject to special considerations and limitations. Detainees constitute a significant labor
force of skilled and unskilled individuals. These individuals should be employed to the fullest extent possible
in work that is needed to construct, manage, perform administrative functions for, and maintain the detainee

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-21

Chapter 9

facility. Per AR 190-8, detainees may be employed in other essential work only when other qualified civilian
labor is not available.
9-117. Detainee labor, which is external to the DOD, is regulated through contracts. See AR 190-8 for a
complete discussion on the employment and compensation of detainees.
9-118. Exercise caution when contemplating the use of internees for labor and contact the office of the staff
judge advocate for guidance. The staff judge advocate or their representative ensures that the policy complies
with domestic law and international legal obligations. See Convention [III] relative to the Treatment of
Prisoners of War, Geneva, FM 3-63.

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
9-119. Base camp operation is the O&M of the base camp physical plant and the provision of base camp
services and support that are needed to achieve the base camp purpose and fulfill functional requirements.
The skills needed for operating and managing base camps do not reside in any single branch or functional
area. A grouping of capabilities is required to produce synergic effects within the base camp. Success hinges
on placing the right people, with the right skill sets, at the right time. Any shortfalls in skills or capabilities
at a base camp are filled through the tenant units or reachback for augmentation or contracted support. ATP
3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for more information on base camp O&M.

BASE CAMP OPERATIONS
9-120. The base operations center is the centralized facility on a base camp that issues guidance pertaining
to the O&M of the base camp. It is the base camp commander’s primary means of maintaining situational
awareness and managing the performance of the base camp function and the provision of services and support
to ensure efficiency and effectiveness. (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for more
information on the base operations center. See ADP 5-0, ADP 6-0, and MCWP 5-1 for more information on
the operations process.)
9-121. The ground component commander or Service component commanders may share responsibilities
for O&M of access; reception, staging, onward movement, and integration; and initial bed-down facilities,
depending on their assigned areas of responsibility. General engineer assets may be assigned specific tasks
to support the O&M of specific base camps or bed-down facilities, or they may be supported on an area basis
as implied tasks within their supported areas.
9-122. The CCDR and supported commands may share responsibilities for O&M of en route base camps
or facilities and initial bed-down facilities, depending on where they are located with respect to the area of
operations. For base camps, the primary responsibility for O&M rests with the base camp commander and
assigned tenant units. Anything above and beyond their capabilities can be handled by general engineers or
contactors with specialized skill sets.
9-123. Engineers can support the base camp as a directorate of public works or facility engineer.
Directorates of public works on base camps are supported with assigned personnel and equipment assets to
handle infrastructure O&M improvements, master planning, energy, water, waste, housing, and
environmental compliance. Facility engineers can provide the base camp with O&M support services that
include building maintenance; facility repair; road repair; ice, snow, and sand removal; grounds maintenance;
refuse removal; recycling; utility operations; and pest control. See AD-A243-233 for more information on
public works.
9-124. For bed-down facilities, the designated commander and the assigned tenant units are responsible for
the general O&M of their facilities. Anything beyond their capabilities can be handled by general engineers.
Engineers can be requested to handle O&M activities requiring specialized skill sets. The maintenance of
bed-down facilities is performed at lower standards than that of base camps since bed-down facilities are
used for a limited period of time. Because of the brief utility of bed-down facilities, engineer resources are
limited, and the focus is on an economy of effort. That is, engineers would implement field-expedient and
temporary measures for repairing bed-down facilities rather than investing in costly upgrades and major
improvements to the quality of life.

9-22

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camps and Bed-Down Facilities

9-125. Commanders may defer routine maintenance during initial bed-down until the tactical situation
allows resources to be committed. Some engineer-specific facilities, systems, and the repair of most facilities
will require the early entry of engineering and maintenance units to bring facility systems back on line.
Depending on real estate agreements, and when no longer needed, some bed-down facilities may require
maintenance and repair to return them to owners in an agreed-upon condition.

BASE CAMP MAINTENANCE
9-126. Temporary construction in base camps is not intended for long-term use, thus increasing the need
for proper maintenance and repair to keep base camps in good operating condition. The base camp
commander has the overall responsibility for maintenance and repair. Capabilities that extend beyond tenant
units require support by general engineers.
9-127. Units and organizations that occupy facilities are encouraged to establish internal teams that perform
routine maintenance and repair of facilities. Engineers perform maintenance and repair work that exceeds the
capabilities of user units. This support usually requires specialized skills or heavy equipment.
9-128. General engineers can assist the base camp commander by providing routine maintenance and
services on base camp facilities. This can include facility inspections, structural assessments, construction
material orders, and work schedules. Because materials and parts can be in short supply, base camp
commanders, with the assistance of engineer advisors, must be vigilant in establishing a proactive
maintenance program.
9-129. Base camp commanders are responsible for establishing, directing, and controlling 24-hour
emergency response to base camp incidents due to acts of nature, accidents, or enemy activity (see
ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 [MCRP 3-17.7N]). General engineers can also provide rapid response, which
includes—
 Performing immediate repair required after natural disasters (floods, tornadoes, hurricanes).
 Restoring power outages.
 Fixing water main leaks that impact key facilities.
 Responding to fuel and HAZMAT spills and leaks.
 Fighting fires and dealing with the aftermath of explosions.
 Repairing perimeter fencing, barriers, and obstacles to prevent enemy penetration.
 Repairing lighting and other security systems to restore observation and monitoring.
 Repairing facilities that are deemed mission-critical and -essential to base activities.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

9-23

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 10

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance
Real estate plays a key role in supporting the warfighter with land and facilities for
mission requirements. Real estate procurement is provided by USACE. Military forces
must acquire, manage, and dispose of real estate, land, and fixed facilities within the
area of operations to support committed forces. Included in this support is the
acquisition of real estate for use as office space, billeting, dining facilities, material
storage areas, staging areas, maintenance functions, training, ports, roads, buffer or
safety zones, and so forth. These facilities may be used to house the operations cell,
planning, administrative, logistics, maintenance, and other services. Existing facilities
are used, when possible, to reduce construction requirements. The engineer
construction and other military support effort can then be invested in other immediate
commitments. This chapter discusses real estate management and real property
maintenance.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
10-1. The following paragraphs discuss the responsibilities, capabilities, objectives, policies, and planning
and maintenance activities and the transfer of real estate and real property.

CHIEF OF ENGINEERS
10-2. The chief of engineers is the DA staff officer responsible for real estate functions and, as such, exercises
staff supervision over Army real estate activities of overseas commands (see AR 405-10). The chief of
engineers is responsible for carrying out the following duties:
 Establish real estate records and reporting systems necessary to administer responsibilities.
 Provide technical advice and assistance in handling real estate acquisition, management of lease
actions, and disposition.
 Issue instructions to ensure that real estate activities are conducted according to applicable
directives, policies, and regulations.
 Review real estate data, including estimates, justifications, records, and reports.

UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
10-3. USACE has the capability of providing contingency real estate support teams that can assist in real
estate matters and deploy in support of these requirements. The FEST–main provides the localized command
for USACE teams in the operational area and provides sustained USACE engineering execution capabilities
within the operational area. Its capability includes real estate acquisition and disposal. See FM 3-34 and JP
3-34 for information on the USACE role in real estate support.

ENGINEER REAL ESTATE TEAM
10-4. Joint engineer real estate teams or USACE contingency real estate support teams can provide real
estate support to U.S. forces in the United States and during contingency operations by obtaining land and
facilities and managing leases and use agreements. The Army has a contingency real estate support team with
appropriate delegations from the Army Secretariat or the Chief of Engineers who is responsible to the area
support command or other command, as appropriate.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-1

Chapter 10

10-5. The real estate teams conduct real estate management within their assigned areas according to the
directives, instructions, and standard operating procedures. A contingency real estate support team is
deployable and can acquire, manage, and dispose of real estate on behalf of the U.S. government. The
contingency real estate support team has the capability to—
 Acquire land or facilities, manage lease and use agreements, dispose of land or facilities, and pay
rents and damages for real estate used within the area of operations.
 Investigate, process, and settle real estate claims.
 Conduct utilization inspections.
 Record, document, and prepare reports on the real estate used, occupied, or held by the Army (or
joint forces, as appropriate) within their assigned areas.
 Coordinate with agencies of the friendly HN to execute joint, United States, and HN real estate
functions.
 Coordinate with the staff judge advocate for legal issues and claim settlements.
 Include an EBS and OESHA, when possible and appropriate, in all real estate actions.
Note. See EP 500-1-2 and FM 3-34 for more information on the organization and roles of the
contingency real estate support team.

FACILITIES ENGINEER SUPPORT TEAM–ADVANCE
10-6. The facilities engineer support team–advance has the capability to deploy support elements to the
CCDR or JTF commander with real estate acquisition and disposal and to receive a task-organized
contingency real estate support team, when required. See FM 3-34 and JP 3-34 for more information on
FEST–advance.

NAVAL FACILITIES COMMAND
10-7. NAVFAC is responsible for providing all real estate functions required by the Navy and Marine Corps.
NAVFAC has experts who can deploy in support of real estate management requirements, but has no
standing, deployable real estate units. NAVFAC has the capacity and capability to support real estate
transactions in contingency environments with planning, acquisition, management, maintenance, and
disposal of facilities.
10-8. When deployed in theater, Marines normally use the combatant command-designated agent for real
estate procurement. Otherwise, Marines rely on NAVFAC for that support. NAVFAC procures real estate
according to its policies and procedures. When tasked to support a contingency deployment real estate
requirement, NAVFAC task-organizes in a manner best suited for the circumstances. See JP 3-34, NAVFAC
P-73: Real Estate Procedural Manual, NTTP 4-04.3, and SECNAVINST 11011.47C for additional
information.

AIR FORCE
10-9. The Air Force is responsible for providing the real estate functions required by the Air Force. It
considers real estate as assigned to the responsibility area of Prime BEEF and RED HORSE units. These
units have the capability of providing real estate acquisition, management, maintenance, and disposal.
10-10. When a component-numbered Air Force serves as the Air Force warfighting component to the
CCDR, Air Force civil engineers are assigned or attached to an installation and mission support directorate
to serve as engineer advisors to the commander of the Air Force forces. They serve as an interface for other
Service regional wartime construction management support and conduct real estate activities for the lease or
use of HN facilities and bases. See Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34 and JP 3-34 for additional information
on Air Force engineer capabilities.

10-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance

COMBATANT COMMANDER
10-11. A CCDR is responsible for all real estate activities within the area of operations. This responsibility
may be delegated to a designated deputy or to the Army, Navy, or Air Force Service component commander
with the greatest requirements and the appropriate authority and technical real estate staff expertise.
Maintaining a single inter-Service real estate facility use policy consolidates activities, reduces duplication,
and limits the impact on the local economy. The theater commander may establish a central real estate office
to direct and record all real estate activities or direct that the commander assigned real estate responsibility
establish such an office. The CCDR develops the policies and procedures for real property and base camp
transfers as part of the theater basing strategy. Associated guidance on environmental considerations will be
provided in an annex of the OPLAN or OPORD. The commander of the assigned area of operations is
responsible for the timely identification and mitigation of negative environmental impacts within the area of
operations. See ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 for more information on the environmental real estate
considerations.

JOINT FORCE COMMANDER
10-12. A JFC is responsible for carrying out the following real estate support duties:
 Determine real estate requirements for the force.
 Plan, execute, and analyze real estate requirements according to the pertinent directives, policies,
and regulations.
 Prepare budget estimates and justifications as directed.
 Secure funding for lease payments from the appropriate using command.
 Prepare and submit real estate reports as directed.
 Conduct utilization inspections according to the instructions and criteria furnished by the Chief of
Engineers.
 Notify the Chief of Engineers of utilization problems that require action at the DA level.
 Furnish the Chief of Engineers with copies of all intercommand real estate and space utilization
directives.

JOINT FORCE ENGINEERS
10-13. Joint force engineers are responsible for planning the acquisition of uncontaminated land and
facilities and their management and ultimate disposal to support joint operations. Their capabilities include
real estate acquisition, management, maintenance, and disposal as a sustainment function for joint engineer
support. The command engineer staff, and the subordinate joint force engineer staff recommend policies and
priorities for construction, real estate acquisition, and Class IV construction materials (see JP 3-34 for
additional information).
10-14. The JFC may establish a joint facilities utilization board that is responsible for assisting and
managing the Service component use of real estate and existing facilities. The joint facilities utilization board
is a temporary board, chaired by the CCDR or subordinate joint force engineer, with members from the joint
force staff, components, and other special activities. The joint facilities utilization board has the capability to
evaluate and reconcile component requests for real estate, use of facilities, inter-Service support, and
construction to ensure compliance with priorities established by the JFC.

ARMY SERVICE COMPONENT COMMANDER
10-15. The real property acquisition and lease management will be accomplished by qualified and delegated
real estate teams or the contingency real estate support team. The theater Army commander may retain control
of real estate in the combat zone and delegate responsibility for rear areas only.

ARMY SERVICE COMPONENT STAFF ENGINEER
10-16. The ASCC/MCCC staff engineer has the capability to operate and manage real estate and property
acquisition, maintenance, and disposal functions. ASCC/MCCC engineer responsibilities include—

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-3

Chapter 10












Furnishing technical real estate guidance and advice to the commander, staff, and all echelons of
command.
Recommending real estate policies and operation procedures to the logistics officers.
Preparing, coordinating, distributing (in coordination with the logistics officer), and exercising
staff supervision over the execution of theater real estate directives.
Acquiring land or facilities, managing leases and use agreements, disposing of land or facilities,
paying rents and damages, handling claims, and preparing records and reports for the real estate
used within the area of operations.
Maintaining a real estate office in the AOR.
Preparing long-range real estate plans and requirements.
Ensuring compliance with international agreements and the law of land warfare.
Coordinating with the authorities of the friendly HN.
Ensuring the integration of appropriate environmental considerations in all real estate policies,
operational policies, and operations.

10-17. The ASCC/MCCC staff engineer executes all real estate functions in the AOR when delegated such
responsibility by the CCDR. When the commander of another Service component command is responsible
for real estate activities, the ASCC/MCCC engineer executes only ASCC/MCCC real estate functions.

SUBORDINATE COMMAND ENGINEER
10-18. Engineers of commands below the ASCC/MCCC staff engineer are responsible for furnishing
technical real estate guidance to the commanders, staffs, and subordinate echelons of the commands. They
have the capability of handling assigned or delegated real estate duties.

FACILITY ENGINEER AND ARMY ENGINEER FACILITIES DETACHMENT
10-19. A facility engineer is normally responsible for real property maintenance, also called O&M, on an
installation, facility, or base camp. The facility engineer may work for a directorate of public works, a facility
engineer team, or an engineer staff section and coordinates with higher-level engineer real property
maintenance staff.
10-20. An Army engineer facilities detachment, normally located in a sustainment brigade or higher
headquarters, provides facilities management for troop concentrations. The detachment has the following
O&M capabilities:
 Provides O&M training.
 Implements short- and long-range facility work plans.
 Coordinates service and support contracts.
 Provide technically qualified contracting officer representative for all initiated service contracts.

OBJECTIVES
10-21. The efficient conduct of real estate activities depend largely on a command-wide understanding of
the objectives of the real estate program in overseas commands. These objectives are to—
 Acquire and administer real property that is essential to the mission.
 Acquire and use existing facilities to keep new construction to a minimum.
 Acquire environmentally safe real property and facilities that promote force health protection and
coordinate for the performance of an OESHA when applicable.

10-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance





Protect the United States and its allies against unjust and unreasonable claims and charges for
using, renting, or leasing real or personal property. Linking an EBS to the signing of a lease, when
possible, is an excellent method of providing desired financial protection for the government.
Provide reasonable compensation to individuals or private entities for the use of real property,
except enemy-held property or, possibly, property that is located in a combat zone or enemy
territory.

ARMY POLICIES
10-22. DA policy concerning real estate acquisitions is described in AR 405-10, DODD 4165.06, and TM
5-300. Real estate in overseas theaters are based on the following general principles:
 Adhere to international conventions. U.S. forces will adhere to the provisions of Convention
(IV) respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land and its annex: Regulations concerning the
Laws and Customs of War on Land, Hague; Convention (IV) relative to the Protection of Civilian
Persons in Time of War, Geneva; The Convention Respecting the Laws and Customs of War on
Land (Hague IV) and its annex; Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons
in Time of War (Fourth Geneva Convention); The Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural
Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and its supplements; and FM 6-27.
 Conform to international agreements. The Army real estate program will conform to
international agreements and all other agreements affecting the United States, such as treaties,
memoranda of understandings and land leases and reciprocal aid, military assistance, status-offorces, and civil affairs agreements.
 Make appropriate compensation. When required, fair and reasonable rent will be paid for real
estate used, occupied, or held by the Army. Payment for the occupation of land will not be made
to any person or persons who are members of the enemy government or who are hostile to interests
of the United States. Compensation will not be made for any real property located in the combat
zone that is lost, damaged, or destroyed as a result of military action.
 Honor HN laws. U.S. forces will honor the real estate laws of the host country to the fullest extent
possible, consistent with military requirements.
 Use existing facilities. U.S. forces will use existing facilities as much as possible to reduce the
need for new construction and to conserve resources, time, and personnel.
 Facilitate antiterrorism and other protection requirements. U.S. forces will recognize,
understand, and adhere to theater command antiterrorism and other protection requirements for
facilities with regard to security and protection.
 Minimize acquisition. Real estate acquisition will be held to an absolute minimum, consistent
with military requirements, to minimize the disruption of the local economy. Joint utilization
should be encouraged, and the duplication of function and services should be avoided.
 Follow appropriate acquisition policies. The full use of HN governmental agencies will be made
when possible if not restricted by treaties. The acquisition of real estate in a deployed location will
be by requisition, by lease, or through consignment by the HN to the United States where the
property is in the territory of an ally or by requisition, confiscation, or seizure when the property
is owned by the enemy.

NAVY POLICIES
10-23. Navy policy for the acquisition, management, and disposal of real property and real property
interests is provided in SECNAVINST 11011.47C.

PLANNING
10-24. These are key terms related to real estate and real property maintenance:
 Real estate is interests in real property as referred to as rights or estates, hence real estate is similar
to real property (AR 405-45).

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-5

Chapter 10












A facility is a real property entity consisting of one or more of the following: a building, a structure,
a utility system, pavement, and underlying land (JP 3-34).
A joint facilities utilization board is a joint board that evaluates and reconciles component requests
for real estate, use of existing facilities, inter-Service support, and construction to ensure
compliance with Joint Civil-Military Engineering Board priorities (JP 3-34).
Maintenance is the routine recurring work required to keep a facility in such condition that it may
be continuously used at its original or designed capacity and efficiency for its intended purpose
(JP 4-0).
O&M is the maintenance and repair of real property, operation of utilities, and provision of other
services such as refuse collection and disposal, entomology, snow removal, and ice alleviation (JP
3-34).
Real property is lands, buildings, structures, utilities systems, improvements, and appurtenances,
thereto that includes equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures, but not
movable equipment (JP 3-34). AR 405-45 provides additional clarity by stating, “It includes
equipment affixed and built into the facility as an integral part of the facility (such as heating
system), but not movable equipment (such as plant equipment). In many instances, this term is
synonymous with ‘real estate’”.
Solid waste is garbage, refuse, sludge, or other waste material (except those deemed hazardous
and excluded by Federal regulation) in the form of solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material that has been discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or treated prior to being discarded
as a result of institutional, industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural, or community activities.
Hazardous waste, recycling and infectious waste materials are not included in this category. See
Section 261.2, Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations for additional information.

REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT
10-25. According to JP 3-34, real estate management involves planning, acquisition, management, and
disposal of land and facilities to support military operations. General engineering encompasses real estate
management from acquisition of real property to final turnover of land and facilities upon completion of an
operation. USACE (contingency real estate support team), AFCEC, and NAVFAC have experts who can
deploy in support of these requirements. See JP 3-34 and TM 5-300 for information on real estate team
deployments.
10-26. The acquisition of privately owned property overseas, whether improved or unimproved, will
almost always be accomplished through leasing. The use of HN land and facilities should be via written
agreement. Acquiring real estate in other counties can be complex since many landowners do not have actual
titles to the land, such as in Afghanistan. This can delay acquisition and cause multiple claims against the
U.S. government.
10-27. Trained and qualified personnel are essential for the proper handling of real estate management
responsibilities. Real estate activities must be well managed to avoid facing major consequences or damage
in relations between U.S. forces and the HN. Military legal officers, USACE or NAVFAC counsel, and
civilian lawyers familiar with the laws of countries within the theater must be included to assist the planning
group with sound advice and comprehensive technical reviews of proposed real estate policies and procedures
impacting the United States and its allies.
10-28. During COA development, the engineer staff assists in determining real property and real estate
requirements. Real estate involves planning, acquisition, management, and disposal of land and facilities to
support military operations. See FM 3-34 and JP 3-34 for more information on real estate requirements and
real estate management.
10-29. Real estate plans and policies are based on directives or instructions issued to the CCDR by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff or by the Service commander appointed as executive agent for the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

10-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance

PLANNING GROUP
10-30. A planning group, which includes the combatant command staff and representatives of all Service
commanders, must initiate real estate planning during the preparatory phases of a campaign. The agency that
will execute real estate acquisition and planning when the campaign begins is organized at this time and
should participate in all planning activities. Real estate support enables force projection and enables logistics
support for theater opening. In addition to plans for real estate requirements during hostilities, consideration
should be given to real estate requirements for the occupation period after hostilities cease. This may be most
critical for those requirements that will be met by new construction, such as base camps.
10-31. The site selection process is a joint effort that is conducted by several members. If available, a
USACE contingency real estate support team member should be included as an integral part of the site
selection team, helping to ensure site acquisition through a HN use agreement or lease of private property.
The site selection team should also include engineer, medical, or other required subject matter experts to
conduct an EBS and OESHA and integrate appropriate environmental considerations when possible. See
ATP 4-45 for more information on on-site selection team and site selection considerations.

EXISTING FACILITIES
10-32. Facilities are grouped into six broad categories that emphasize the use of existing assets over new
construction, as discussed in JP 3-34. Consolidate and use existing facilities as much as possible to reduce
the need for new construction. To the maximum extent possible, facilities or real estate requirements should
be met from the following categories, in the priority listed:
 U.S.-owned, -occupied, or -leased facilities (including captured facilities).
 U.S.-owned facility substitutes pre-positioned in theater.
 HN and multinational support facilities where an agreement exists for the HN or partner nation to
provide specific types and quantities of facilities at specific times in designated locations.
 Facilities available from commercial sources.
 U.S.-owned facility substitutes stored in the United States.
 Newly constructed facilities identified during an assessment of available existing assets.
 Existing facilities should be used when they are available. The use of existing facilities—
 Allows swift occupation by military activities.
 Uses existing utilities; existing telephone service; and connecting air, ground, and sea LOC
facilities.
 Uses available, on-site administrative and industrial equipment.
 Permits less diversion of troops from combat missions.
 Uses a smaller outlay of government funds and resources.
 Provides some inherent camouflaging of military activity.
Note. The location may be near major government, industrial, transportation, or resource centers.
10-33. The advantages of using existing facilities normally outweigh the disadvantages. However, there
may be some disadvantages that make the facilities strongly undesirable for military use. Planners should
consider alternatives when existing facilities cannot be adapted to the desired mission requirements, such as
when—
 Facilities cannot be adapted to desired survivability and force protection standards.
 Dispersion is difficult or impossible.
 Facilities are inflexible and cannot be tailored to meet military needs.
 Environmental considerations and associated force health protection issues make the site
undesirable or questionable for occupation.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-7

Chapter 10

REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION
10-34. During conventional combat in the active combat zone, real estate required by U.S. forces is acquired
by seizure or requisition, without formal documentation. Seizure is resorted to only when it is justified in the
accomplishment of mission requirements, is driven by urgent military necessity, and is done with the
expressed approval of the commander who has area of operations responsibility. HN property may be
occupied without real estate documentation to the extent that tactical situation dictates. After the cessation of
hostilities, private property may be leased if there are valid mission requirements for its continued use, if the
property is required at least 30 days or longer, and if the property owner is known.
10-35. Normally, real estate property is obtained through requisition, which is a demand placed on the
owner of the property or the owner’s representative. No rent or other compensation is paid for requisitioned
or seized property in the combat zone. This includes its use, or its damage resulting from acts of war or caused
by ordinary military wear and tear.
10-36. Outside the active combat zone, property is normally acquired only by requisition and lease and all
transactions are documented thoroughly under the applicable provisions of theater directives. Large tracts of
real estate are required for ports, staging areas, training, and maneuver areas, leave centers, supply depots,
base camps, and headquarters installations. Some of this property may be highly developed and have
considerable value to the civilian population. Established procedures must be followed to acquire required
property, while also ensuring that the legal rights of its owners are protected. Occupying units are responsible
for providing funds for lease payments (see AR 405-10).
10-37. Use local government officials to help identify available facilities or properties that meet
approximate military requirements. The military would obtain permission to modify or upgrade the facility
to meet the requirements. Another resource is for the engineer to seek assistance from military intelligence
in identifying facilities, such as airfields or seaports, for adequate use (a good historical example is the
Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan). This teamwork approach capitalizes on the use of existing intelligence to
aid in the proper selection of facilities. Civil affairs personnel and Army engineer real estate or contingency
real estate support teams may work through local government officials or directly contact property owners
to achieve agreements. When possible, local government officials normally evict and resettle civilians from
property requisitioned by the military forces. U.S. military forces evict tenants or occupants only in the most
urgent circumstances or upon refusal or inability of local authorities to act.
10-38. Normally, a local government representative assists in preparing property inventories for local
government-owned property. It is particularly important that requisitions carry the correct real estate property
descriptions and that local government officials check requisitions against corresponding entries in
permanent records. An EBS is also desirable to protect the U.S. government from future claims.
10-39. If local records have been lost or destroyed, local authorities must establish a correct legal
identification for the requisitioned property. The signature of the local official charged with real estate
responsibility must be obtained on the initial and release inventories. This official signature is required by
international agreement to ensure that the U.S. government is protected from unjust claims and liability for
loss of, or damage to, property used by U.S. forces.
10-40. When possible, integrate an EBS and OESHA into the process of obtaining real property and real
estate. This is to ensure that EBSs and OESHAs meet acceptable levels of appropriate inquiry into the
previous ownership and that the uses of the property are consistent with good commercial or customary
practice. The goal of this process is to identify environmental conditions that may present a material risk of
harm to public health or the environment.

FACILITY MODIFICATION
10-41. The situation may require the modification of existing facilities to better serve military needs. This
could result from changing existing mission requirements, accommodating special unit needs, correcting
deficiencies, or conducting upgrades and improvements. Correcting deficiencies should be the primary focus
of engineers, as it preventive measures are an all arms task. Theater planning should identify deficiencies and
required corrective actions. Theater requirements for antiterrorism and other protection tasks must be
considered in the initial planning stages. AOR real estate principles for property acquisition apply as

10-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance

discussed above. These changes could require additional compensation to property owners and should be
factored into the initial planning and budget. Draw on the expertise, ingenuity, and innovation of engineers,
HN experts, and civilian contractors to resolve these issues. In addition, use tools such as JCMS or the
automated distribution illumination system, electrical program to modify existing facilities for military use
and to upgrade to applicable UFC.

NEW FACILITY CONSTRUCTION
10-42. New construction in the area of operations is strictly limited to mission-essential facilities that are
vital to the accomplishment of the overall mission when existing facilities do not meet the criteria required
by commanders. It is likely that base camps will require new construction due to land location and protection
requirements.

REAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
10-43. Real property maintenance are those actions taken to ensure that real property is maintained in a
timely manner. Real property maintenance includes the operation, maintenance, and repair of facilities and
utilities.
10-44. Real property maintenance does not include the maintenance and repair of mobile and portable
equipment or other items not classified as real property. Some of the coordination aspects of real property
maintenance, however, do include many tasks not normally associated with minor construction and routine
maintenance and repair.
10-45. Maintenance is the routine prevention and correction of damage and deterioration caused by normal
use and exposure to the elements. Repair restores damage caused by abnormal use, accidents, hostile forces,
and severe weather actions. Repair includes the resurfacing of a road or airfield when maintenance can no
longer accomplish its purpose. Rehabilitation restores facilities that have not been in the hands of friendly
forces and do not meet operational requirements. Rehabilitation resembles war damage repair, except that it
is accomplished before occupancy.
10-46. Routine maintenance and repair include performing inspections, stockpiling materials for
maintenance and repair work, maintaining and repairing road surfaces and drainage systems, controlling dust
and mud, and removing snow and ice. The main purpose of maintenance and repair work is to keep road
surfaces in a usable and safe condition. It also maintains route capacity and reduces vehicle maintenance
requirements.

RESPONSIBILITIES
10-47. Per AR 405-10, the Chief of Engineers is the DA staff officer responsible for real estate functions
exercising staff supervision over Army real estate activities in overseas commands. Real property
maintenance is administered by the theater Army area command through its subordinate area support groups
(see TM 5-300).
10-48. The Installation Management Command supports the Army warfighting mission by working to
provide standardized, effective, and efficient services, facilities, and infrastructure to Soldiers, civilians, and
families. Support for real property maintenance is provided on an area basis to all installations, organic
activities, and tenant units. The theater engineer command at the theater Army level provides overall
supervision and technical assistance. The administration of real property maintenance forward of the corps
rear boundary is a corps responsibility. Command and support relationships in the theater Army are described
in FM 3-34.

PLANNING
10-49. The theater engineer command (or senior engineer brigade) and the responsible engineer staff must
consider current and anticipated real property maintenance requirements for the area of operations. These
include—
 Maintaining and repairing the LOC.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-9

Chapter 10














Estimating potential requirements for repairing war damage.
Coordinating phase planning and target date requirements.
Reviewing after action reviews and lessons learned from recent military operations.
Considering contract support (such as the logistics civil augmentation program [Army]),
preplacement of contract vehicles, and mechanisms for the management of such contracts in
theater (such as engineer advisory board or Contracting Support Brigade).
Considering other U.S. agencies (such as the Department of State and the United States Agency
for International Development) that may be in the AOR concurrently, considering how the
competencies of each might be leveraged, and establishing working relations across the agencies
in peacetime.
Determining the limitations (such as political) on using a cost-effective local work force and local
contractors.
Ensuring that a management system is in place that identifies facilities to support U.S. facility
needs.
Identifying procedures for the accountability, security, maintenance, and training of appropriate
local national facilities personnel if they are to be transferred to local authorities after the ceasing
of hostilities.
Integrating appropriate environmental considerations and related force health protection concerns.

10-50. Any alteration or renovation work that is planned for existing structures should be designed
according to AFCS guidance and should essentially be nonpermanent in nature. Plans for major repairs,
renovations, or alterations on existing structures must include estimates for labor and materials. Planners may
also use estimating sources, such as the engineer performance standards or a commercial estimating guide
(means estimating guide).
10-51. There may be situations in the theater where the estimated materials or labor resources are
insufficient or unavailable. Local materials, labor, and services should be used to accomplish real property
maintenance when possible. With the approval of the theater Army engineer and support of the theater
engineer command or assigned engineer brigade, the local responsible engineer may change the design or
scope of planned project work to capitalize on locally available personnel, resources, and services.

OPERATION OF UTILITIES
10-52. O&M or upgrade of existing utilities and the construction, operation, and maintenance of new
utilities systems may be an engineer responsibility. Utility systems include electric power, wastewater
collection and treatment, and other systems (cooling and refrigeration, compressed air, heating). Operating
these systems requires specially certified, licensed, or trained personnel. These personnel may be available
through the theater engineer command or assigned engineer brigade, trained locally, or hired from the local
work force.
10-53. Utility systems must be reliable, properly operated, and protected. Appropriate measures should be
implemented to ensure their correct operation and servicing. Measures should be implemented to provide
increased or upgraded physical security if the situation warrants. Such measures include controlled access,
continuous inspection, and adequate security personnel. See ATP 3-39.32 for more details on facility physical
security.

Wastewater Collection and Treatment Systems
10-54. Large troop concentrations at fixed facilities generate increased requirements for handling sewage
and wastewater collection and treatment. When existing fixed facilities are occupied, they usually include
wastewater systems. However, these systems may not be fully operational or suitable for use by military
forces. These systems should be properly inspected, operated, maintained, repaired, or upgraded by engineer
elements or qualified indigenous personnel.
10-55. The construction, operation, maintenance, and repair of adequate sewage disposal systems are
described in AR 420-1.

10-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance

10-56. Field sanitation measures (such as pit latrines and grease sumps), portable chemical toilets, and waste
treatment plants may be used temporarily until fixed facilities are completed and in operation. Force health
protection is facilitated through good unit standard operating procedures, leadership enforcement, and field
discipline in conjunction with the conduct of an OESHA and medical monitoring procedures (see ATP 425.12 and TC 4-02.3).
10-57. As with all AFCS designs in the area of operations, the standard of construction for wastewater
systems will nearly always be nonpermanent and designed to require minimum maintenance during the
limited time anticipated for the period of occupation. Locally available materials may be used if approved by
the ASCC/MCCC engineer. Engineers will perform real property maintenance and operate the system as
directed by the ASCC/MCCC engineer. Guidance on environmental considerations will be provided in an
annex of the OPORD. See the AFCS for standard designs of wastewater systems.

Shower and Laundry Systems
10-58. The Army Quartermaster sustainment brigades can provide a system of mobile shower and laundry
systems. The laundry system includes a giant mobile washer and dryer facility that stands on a flatbed tractortrailer. The shower system includes a multipoint shower facility, which features separate stalls that are erected
under a large tent. See ATP 4-93 for more information on shower and laundry systems. Shower and laundry
support is an engineer function in the Marine Corps. See ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-40D.14 for additional
information on Marine Corps units and equipment.

Other Utility Systems
10-59. In some areas, other types of central utility systems may have to be operated by theater forces. These
systems include heating, cooling, or refrigeration. Utility equipment in existing facilities must be repaired
and/or maintained if it is to be operated. The responsibility for supervising this work will be directed by the
ASCC/MCCC engineer.
10-60. Local, portable, or unit systems (such as stoves and portable refrigeration units) will be ordered,
maintained, repaired, and operated by the using unit. Engineers usually inspect and maintain central utility
systems, such as steam plants, cold storage warehouses, or cooling plants. Where existing facilities are used,
the theater engineer command may ensure the maintenance of these systems.

MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF FACILITIES
10-61. The maintenance and repair of facilities are the responsibility of the local commander who is
supported by engineer assets. Existing facilities that need maintenance and repair before they can be used are
repaired to minimum standards. Early in planning, engineers should ensure that repair materials are properly
estimated and prestocked to assure their availability when needed.
10-62. Much short-term maintenance and repair work can be performed by local troops who are organized
into self-help teams. These teams coordinate with local logistics sources or supporting engineers to obtain
the required expertise, materials, and tools. The early identification of spare parts requirements and the
establishment of supply sources in the early stages of planning are critical. Adequately trained and supported
self-help teams can perform most maintenance and repair work on facilities, releasing engineer troops to
accomplish more critical duties, complex repair work, and major construction projects.
10-63. When major repairs are required, the engineer unit assigned to the area support group, augmented
when necessary, with supporting assets from the theater engineer command or assigned engineer brigade,
makes repairs as prioritized by the theater Army engineer. Generally, these priorities are developed and
scheduled based on the impact that the work has on the mission.
10-64. After immediate and ongoing maintenance and repair requirements are determined, the
commander’s senior engineer will establish a repair and maintenance program for the installation, base, or
facility using self-help, supporting engineer assets, and/or local personnel or contracted support to
accomplish the work. If the program is extensive or long-term, the unit commander should coordinate with
the ASCC/MCCC engineer to initiate a continuing facility engineer operation at the facility or installation.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-11

Chapter 10

The facility engineer will then coordinate requirements and resources needed to accomplish the mission.
Further guidance on facilities maintenance and repair may be found in AR 420-1 and TM 5-610.

SOLID-WASTE MANAGEMENT
10-65. Solid-waste management includes collection, recycling, and disposal. Improperly handled solid
waste can be a safety and health hazard. The local commander is usually made responsible for solid-waste
collection and disposal, and engineers accomplish the task. Guidance on solid-waste collection and disposal
is found in AR 420-1 and NAVFAC MO-213/AFR 91-8/TM 5-634.
10-66. Placing in a landfill, burning, and removing are normal means for solid-waste disposal in an area of
operations. Because of potential surface and groundwater contamination, the explosive hazard associated
with uncontrolled methane gas production, increased vermin activity, and the obvious problems with solidwaste odors, it is imperative that landfills be properly planned, designed, managed, and maintained. Options
available to lessen the quantity and/or eliminate specific types of solid waste in sanitary landfills include—
 Using incineration equipment.
 Using recycling programs and services.
 Using appropriate compost methods.
 Using a combination of several methods.
Note. See UFC 3-240-11 for more information on landfills in support of military operations. The
DODI Burn pit reference DODI 4715.19, title Use of Open-Air Burn Pits in Contingency
Operations.
10-67. Compaction and selective disposal are two alternate methods for reducing the volume of solid waste:
 Compaction. Compaction is accomplished with specialized equipment for collecting and
compacting solid waste prior to it being dumped into a landfill. At the landfill site, special mobile
compaction equipment may be used to reduce the volume of solid waste before it is buried and
covered. Other compaction and solid waste-handling techniques include compacting and baling
solid waste for burial or removal from the area.
 Selective disposal. Selective disposal is the separation of certain types of solid waste, such as
wood or metal, from the waste stream. The separated material is then stored or reused.
10-68. Table 10-1 shows an example of estimated solid-waste disposal requirements in tons per day for
supported populations for standard base camp sizes and levels of base camp capabilities (basic, expanded,
and enhanced). The top end of the population range is multiplied by planning factors from
ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N). These estimates can be used for the initial, field-expedient
planning of the total daily, solid-waste disposal requirements for base camps when no other information is
available.
Table 10-1. Example of base camp estimated solid-waste disposal in tons per day

Size

Extra small

Population

Basic Waste
Disposal
Requirements (4
lbs/person/day) /
2,000

Expanded Water
Requirements (6
lbs/person/day) /
2,000

Enhanced Water
Requirements (10
lbs/person/day) /
2,000

299

0.6

0.9

1.5

Small

1,999

4.0

6.0

10.0

Medium

5,999

12.0

18.0

30.0

Large

>6,000

Legend:
lbs

Estimate waste disposal requirements based on the planned population
and planning factors.

pounds

10-69. The waste management principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle can reduce the generated waste
amounts and reduce the required capacities of disposal facilities or other waste management options. TM 3-

10-12

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Real Estate and Real Property Maintenance

34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7 provides information on developing more detailed waste generation rates that are
tailored to a specific situation and waste management options.
10-70. Solid-waste collection and disposal techniques depend on the volume of waste generated, the
duration of facility occupation, existing collection facilities, the resources available to perform the work, the
facility location, the situation, and the environmental aspects of the area. In some cases, selected recycling
may be enacted.
10-71. Special consideration should be given to hazardous waste, especially waste products generated by
medical facilities and maintenance. Hazardous waste should be disposed of according to regulations, laws,
treaties, and agreements. Specific guidance should be contained in an annex of the OPORD. The improper
disposal of hazardous waste may cause serious illness or death to those who operate landfills or cause
irreversible environmental damage. Specialized environmental and medical expertise exists to support the
engineer and the commander when dealing with hazardous waste. See TM 5-814-7 for more information on
hazardous-waste disposal in land treatment facilities.

REAL ESTATE OR REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER
10-72. The transfer of real estate or real property to another Service, a multinational force, a governmental
or nongovernmental organization, or the HN is an extensive process that can vary between commands and
theaters of operation. It requires advanced planning and coordination between the current occupant and the
receiving organization.
10-73. If the transfer involves coalition or HN forces, there are special requirements to ensure that the
United States is fully relieved of liability and that monetary reimbursements are made for any improvements.
Activities include providing legal requirements, conducting real estate reconciliation, executing property
distribution (retrograde and disposal), descoping contractual requirements, monitoring environmental
cleanup, and documenting records and archives to capture relevant transactions and agreements.
10-74. Proper transfer procedures facilitate the timely withdrawal of U.S. forces, reduce costs, prevent
undue liabilities, protect U.S. interests, and promote good relations. See UFC 1-300-08 for guidance and
criteria on the transfer and acceptance of DOD real property. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 317.7N) for information on base camp transfer and closure. See AR 405-90 for real estate disposal.
10-75. During initial occupation, the inbound unit should focus on documenting facility conditions,
inventorying the property, and reviewing existing records. It is imperative that units properly manage and
maintain records and reports as they will ease the transfer of future real estate or real property transactions
with other units. Real estate documents (property agreements, location, description, condition, surveys, value,
and maps) should be requested from the outbound unit, kept on file, and updated as changes occur (see AR
405-45 and DODI 4165.03).
10-76. To support redeployment and transition, engineers may be required to repair, refurbish, and turn
over property and real estate to the HN. Closure actions may include the need to terminate leases and curtail
services and facility contracts. Engineers can also support in planning and executing the destruction of
facilities to prevent enemy use.
10-77. To complete a transfer, units must properly complete the list of transfer requirements and comply
with applicable laws and regulations before finalizing the transaction. Once the transfer is approved for
acceptance or return, commands—
 Coordinate with authorized representatives of units receiving the property, usually the real
property accounting officer or designated representative (when feasible or required).
 Conduct a joint inspection of the property or facility and prepare and sign a verification of joint
inspection and record of return.
 Prepare and sign an outgoing inventory report.
 Prepare and sign a condition report.
 Prepare and sign an environmental site closure report.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

10-13

Chapter 10



10-14

Complete DD Form 1354 (Transfer and Acceptance of DOD Real Property), ensuring that real
property accountable officers or designated representatives of both organizations receive copies
(see UFC 1-300-08 for details on completing DD Form 1354).

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Chapter 11

Power Systems
Military operations require electrical power to support command and control,
communications, targeting, force protection, logistics, and force sustainment functions
throughout all phases of military operations. Powered networks include interior wiring,
distribution, and power generation systems. Safe, reliable, efficient, scalable, and
sustainable power systems are essential and require adequate planning and
consideration by all military units, from the tactical to the strategic level. Power
systems (consisting of standardized and compatible modular components) may range
from small systems powering single facilities to large systems with multiple power
sources and may incorporate alternative fuels, power storage options, and renewable
energy sources. General engineers play a key role in synchronizing the construction,
operation, and maintenance of power systems. This chapter provides an overview of
Service capabilities and includes all phases of power systems.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
11-1. During the initial phases of military operations, power systems will be low-voltage, tactical power
systems that are common to all Services. These tactical power systems include limited distribution and
lighting capabilities. As operations progress and power requirements change, each Service possesses varying,
complementary capabilities to support operations.
11-2. Small, engine-driven generators are the main source of electrical power for armed forces in the field.
Other power-generating capabilities can be used, such as commercial power systems, renewable energy
(water, wind, solar) electric-generating systems, and rechargeable battery systems.

ARMY
11-3. Army units own, operate, and maintain organic tactical generators to meet command requirements and
essential life support electrical power requirements. Army and Navy units own, operate, and maintain
deployable prime power generators and can assist in using commercial power. Engineer prime power units
provide temporary power from their organic generators or from local power grids.

Responsibilities
11-4. General engineers have the capability to plan, design, construct, operate, and maintain basic power
generation and secondary distribution systems. Army engineer prime power assets can reach back to
USACE and provide power planning beyond the capability of assigned engineers.
11-5. There is a division of labor among the specialized Army electricians who handle interior, distribution,
and power plant systems. This includes the following:
 Interior system electricians. Interior electricians are trained and equipped to perform electrical
work within the interior of the building, up to the circuit box. This includes reading electrical
system blueprints; installing wiring, transformers, circuit breakers, service panels, switches,
electrical boxes, and lighting systems; and inspecting, testing, repairing, and replacing electrical
systems within facilities.
 Distribution system electricians. Power distribution specialists are trained and equipped to
perform tasks associated with electrical distribution. They connect service drops and conduits on
deenergized systems. Their duties also include installing—

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

11-1

Chapter 11














Electrical prime power distribution systems.
Exterior services.
Utility poles.
Guy wire.
Anchors.
Crossarms.
Conductors.
Insulators.
Transformers.
Other electrical hardware.
Power plant system electricians. Prime power production specialists are trained and equipped to
perform electrical assessments and facility power system maintenance. They can perform quality
assurance or quality control operations and supervision. They can operate, install, and perform direct
support/general support level maintenance on electric power plants. They can work on prime power
generator sets of 500-kilowatt capacity and higher and associated auxiliary systems and equipment.
Other duties include the liaison officer and technical advisor to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and other federal organizations as necessary.

11-6. Every Army element that is authorized power system components (such as generators and electrical
distribution equipment) on their modified table of organization equipment is required to have a unit power
manager who is trained and licensed to operate the unit tactical power system. The tactical power system will
typically be a plug-and-play power system that provides power to the unit tactical operations center,
communication facility, or maintenance facility.

Prime Power Units
11-7. When power requirements exceed the capabilities of the unit power manager, or the unit’s organic
tactical power system, units normally request support from Army engineer prime power unit or Navy mobile
utilities support equipment. Service prime power units provide theater-wide expertise and technical
assistance on all aspects of electrical power. These Service power production capabilities provide utility
grade power to support larger military power requirements than BCT/BLT through division units have the
capacity to provide. Prime power capabilities must be closely coordinated, integrated, and synchronized
across the whole of spectrum of power to ensure that sufficient, reliable, and resilient electrical power is
available to support all operations (see ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17).
11-8. Engineer prime power units can help plan, install, operate, and maintain their organic power system.
The prime power system can help support a variety of military facility requirements, to include bases/base
camps, seaports, airfields, major headquarters, and medical treatment (hospitals) or other critical facilities.
They may also repair, operate, and maintain nonstandard or commercial power plants and electrical
distribution systems during military operations. Engineer prime power units may perform other technical,
power-related tasks, to include—
 Providing power-related planning and staff assistance.
 Conducting power requirement assessments and electrical-load surveys.
 Analyzing existing power systems and recommending COAs for improvement or expansion.
 Drafting the scope of work for contracted power system support.
 Serving as the technical representative of the contracting officer.

MARINE CORPS
11-9. Marine Corps utility units are organized and equipped to deliver power across the MAGTF. Each
element of the MAGTF possesses an organic utility capability. MAGTF power systems are scalable to the
level of activity and the mission. MAGTF utility personnel plan, install, operate, and maintain military
standard 120, 208, 240, and 416 volts alternating current power generation and distribution equipment for
base camps and vertical construction projects. Utilizing the MAGTF mobile electric power systems, utility

11-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Power Systems

units safely deliver electric power using equipment that produces from 2 to 100 kilowatts. Enduring power
requirements, such as those needed at air facilities, can be operated for up to 2 years. When power
requirements exceed the capabilities of the organic utility units, the MAGTF requests augmentation from
external sources, such as the Seabees or commercial contractors. Additional information pertaining to Marine
Corps power generation and distribution capabilities (including tactics, techniques, and procedures) can be
found in Theater of Operations Electrical Systems.

NAVY
11-10. The Navy construction battalion maintenance unit provides follow-on public works to maintain and
repair existing advanced base shore facilities or facilities constructed by the Naval mobile construction
battalion during contingency operations. The mobile construction battalion is capable of manning, equipping,
and maintaining steam and electrical power generation and distribution systems for advanced base facilities,
up to 5,000 personnel. See NTTP 3-10.1M/MCTP 3-34D for more information on construction battalion
maintenance units and Naval mobile construction battalion capabilities.
11-11. The Navy has mobile utility support units that provide power plants, substations, steam plants, and
technical expertise to support DOD utility shortfalls worldwide. Mobile utility support equipment technicians
attend the prime power production specialist course and a mobile utility support equipment familiarization
course. Technicians are rapidly deployable within a 24-hour notice to provide technical assistance for organic
and nonorganic utilities. Technicians install, repair, maintain, and operate power generation, electrical
distribution, transformation, and steam-generating equipment and infrastructure. Mobile utility support
equipment teams are compact and multidimensional and have expertise and skills to resolve a wide range of
utility issues. See NTTP 4-04.3 for more information on mobile utility support equipment.

AIR FORCE
11-12. The Air Force has Prime BEEF and RED HORSE units that are stand-alone squadrons. They are
highly mobile, largely self-sufficient, and rapidly deployable. Both of these units are capable of providing
electrical-system installation. Prime BEEF are mobile assets that are deployed to air bases, where they can
combine to form a main operating base combat engineer force of 200 to 320 people, depending on the threat
and number and type of aircraft. RED HORSE units provide heavy repair capability and construction support
when requirements exceed normal base civil engineer capabilities and where Army engineer support is not
readily available (see Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34 for additional information).

BASE CAMPS
11-13. Base camps may provide power from generators, a central power plant, or commercial utility power
sources to meet operational and life support requirements. Base camps can connect a variety of power sources
to the base camp distribution system to create a self-contained microgrid. A microgrid is a localized grouping
of electricity generation, energy storage, and loads that normally operate connected to a traditional,
commercial centralized grid (microgrid).
11-14. A microgrid may provide more efficient distribution and use of electrical power. Base camp power
generation and distribution systems may also include power storage capabilities into their grid for supporting
mission-essential facilities or equipment. The installation, operation, and maintenance of power storage
capabilities may be performed by units, interior electricians, prime power personnel, or contractors.

OTHER SOURCES
11-15. The HN may operate regional or national power systems or have commercial utility power systems
that are capable of supporting military operations. However, HN power may not be sufficient, reliable, or
compatible with U.S. military equipment or facilities. Exercise caution when considering HN power, as it
may undermine counterinsurgency goals and actions.
11-16. Contracted power support may be available through local military contracts, the USACE worldwide
power contract, or the logistics civil augmentation program. Contract support may range from simple O&M

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

11-3

Chapter 11

of military power systems to the construction and leasing of large power systems to support large base camps.
(ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for additional information.)

PLANNING AND DESIGN
11-17. There is no one-size-fits-all solution to supplying electrical power throughout the range of military
operations. The capacity, mobility, and flexibility requirements of the electrical system for a C2 node during
large-scale combat operations are very different from those of a base camp or logistics hub. Typically, a site
occupied at the cessation of combat operations develops into an enduring location as the phases of an
operation change.

POWER CONTINUUM
11-18. Figure 11-1 depicts an example of electrical power system transitions. The power systems are
employed in a scalable fashion to use minimal resources to support changing electrical power demands.
Typically, a power system begins with an organic tactical power system, transitions to the prime power
system, and then ultimately transitions to a civilian or contractor-managed utility power system for enduring
locations. These transitions can occur consecutively or concurrently. The goal is to employ power systems
that support and build on one another while meeting mission requirements.

Legend:
AFCAP
BEAR
CHU
GC SC
LOGCAP
RLB
SEA
USACE

Air Force contract augmentation program
Base Expeditionary Airfield Resources
containerized housing unit
global contracting support contract
logistics civil augmentation program
relocatable building
southeast Asia
United States Army Corps of Engineers

Figure 11-1. Tactical power systems

11-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Power Systems

11-19. Typically, a power system will begin with a unit-owned tactical power system, transition to a
deployable prime power system and, ultimately, progress to the civilian- or contractor-managed sustained
power system for long-term engagements. However, the phases of the power continuum do not have to
occur consecutively and several or all phases can occur concurrently. The goal is to employ power systems
that support and build on one another.
11-20. The following power systems are depicted in the power continuum in figure 11-1:
 Tactical power system. This is a highly mobile contingency power system that produces and
distributes electrical power at user voltage and is installed, operated, and maintained by Soldiers.
Initial tactical power systems are composed of modified table of organization equipmentauthorized, Army standard generators and power distribution equipment; but they may include
commercial, off-the-shelf power equipment as missions dictate. User voltage is typically 120/208
volts at 60 hertz, but may also be 230/400 volts at 50 hertz, depending on the deployed location.
Tactical power is generated by a mobile, electrical-power unit that is dedicated to supporting the
missions of units engaged in combat operations. Tactical power uses two classes of generators:
precise and utility. These standard military generators are highly mobile, produce low voltages,
and do not require the use of transformers. They have an output capacity that ranges from 0.5 to
200 kilowatts. These generators are in the unit table of organization and equipment and are referred
to as tactical generators. Distribution systems for tactical power are usually very simple. They
often consist of standard components, such as field wiring, distribution illumination sets, and
electrical sets. The installation, operation, and maintenance of tactical generators and distribution
equipment are the responsibility of the using unit.
 Deployable prime power system. This is a deployable contingency power system that produces
and distributes electrical power at medium voltage; uses transformers to produce user voltage; and
is installed, operated, and maintained by Soldiers. Medium-voltage is typically a 2400- to 13,800volt power system that is capable of distributing power.
 Sustained power system. This is a contingency power system that is site-specific and may be
composed of low- or medium-voltage power equipment, fixed generators, and commercial
electrical equipment. It is installed, operated, and maintained by contracted civilian personnel. See
ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17 for additional information on power systems.

POWER SYSTEMS
11-21. There are many sources of electrical power. Each source varies in complexity, efficiency, and
reliability. Routine power sources are tactical generators, prime power generators, and commercial power.
Engineers estimate power requirements; plan for sources over time; and design and construct basic power
generation systems, secondary distribution systems, and fixed-site storage systems. Power requirements
evolve as a theater matures and populations grow. Detailed planning to forecast and estimate future power
demands ensures that usage does not exceed supply over time.

Power System Planning Considerations
11-22. Power system master planning consolidates and interprets the information gathered from the initial
assessment and merges it with geospatial information. This information includes terrain, existing and planned
facilities, and vehicle and pedestrian traffic patterns to determine the optimum placement of power system
components. Additional planning considerations include—
 Survivability. Do not locate power system components near installation perimeter walls.
Protection from direct and indirect fire (such as using T-shaped walls or sandbag walls) may be
required. Ensure that installed obstacles or barriers do not physically restrict cooling air flow.
 Drainage. Do not locate power system components in low areas that may be prone to flooding, or
near streams, ponds, or rivers where water levels could rise unexpectedly.
 Fuel storage location. Locate remote fuel tanks and reserve fuel supply (5-gallon fuel cans) into
secondary containment close to equipment as authorized by the UFC and national fire code.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

11-5

Chapter 11





Utility corridors/utility space. A utility corridor is a linear strip of land, normally running parallel
with roads, that is identified for present or future locations of utility lines. Locate power cables in
dedicated utility corridors out of main traffic patterns to minimize damage and to ensure access
for repair or expansion/modification of the power system. Do not locate power cables under
facilities, T-shaped walls, sandbags, or other obstructions to access. Provide a dedicated space for
generators and other power system components out of main traffic patterns to prevent physical
damage but allow access for maintenance or replacement.
Equipment standards. Use only commercial power system components that have been approved
by one of the nationally recognized testing laboratories or that have been inspected and approved
by the authority with jurisdiction. Military power system components must meet military
standards or adhere to military specifications. Do not use nonlisted components of existing
facilities. Replace discovered parts not listed (see DA Pam 385-26).

11-23. Power system planners should be integrated into the planning committee or working group to
coordinate with facility master planners, communications personnel, force protection personnel, and logistics
personnel. This is needed to ensure that the power system will best meet the needs of all supported and
minimize conflicts with other mission requirements.
11-24. Always consider personnel and system safety with respect to locating overhead power lines in close
proximity to facilities or in areas that frequently use tall combat vehicles with tactical radio antennas, highlift forklifts, or cranes. Work on energized circuits during system installation or maintenance requires an
energized work permit. A complete power system design will require a short-circuit analysis of potential
fault currents to aid in determining proper circuit breaker and component sizing and ratings. The data from
the short-circuit analysis is used in an arc flash hazard analysis to determine arc flash protection boundaries,
incident energy at the working distance, minimum requirements of arc-rated protective clothing, and potential
risks to personnel performing system maintenance and to develop risk mitigation strategies.
11-25. Automated planning and design tools, such as the JCMS, are available to provide baseline standard
designs and produce a construction bill of materials. The Auto Distribution Illumination System, Electrical,
is a computer model developed to simulate the use of the Distribution Illumination System, Electrical, or the
Power Distribution Illumination Systems, Electrical. The Distribution Illumination System, Electrical, refers
to the military family of power distribution equipment (military customized electrical breaker boxes). These
tools can aid in proper system configuration and component selection.
11-26. Additional references are as follows:
 See TM 3-34.46/MCRP 3-17.7K for detailed design, layout, installation, and maintenance of
electrical systems.
 See the AFCS program guidelines for standard electrical designs.
 See UFC 3-500 series for commercial power system guidance, and UFC 3-501-01 for details of
electrical engineering.
 See ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17 for deployable power systems.
 See TM 5-683/NAVFAC MO-116/AFJMAN 32-1083 for guidance on the facilities maintenance
of interior electrical systems.
 See TM 5-684/NAVFAC MO-200/AFJMAN 32-1082 for the maintenance and repair of exterior
electrical distribution systems.
 See DA Pam 385-26, TM 5-682, and UFC 3-560-01 for details on safe electrical practices.

11-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Power Systems

Power System Requirements
11-27. The initial assessment of what the power system must do is the critical first step, which must be
performed before construction begins or installation commences. The observations made, questions asked,
and resulting answers set the framework for establishing a safe, reliable, and efficient power system.
Executing an effective initial assessment requires a combination of technical expertise, engineer art, and
forecast of future requirements. Some considerations are—
 What size area will the base camp or facilities occupy? The geographic area is a very important
consideration when determining if power must be provided by one power system or multiple
power systems. This also affects the distribution system used; for example, overhead or buried
cables. A relatively large, spread-out installation will likely require multiple power systems,
regardless of population, because excessively long power cables will degrade the performance and
efficiency of the power system. The available area will also determine whether expansion (of
services/capabilities and/or population) can occur within the existing perimeter or will require
additional land.
 What is the projected population to be served? This is important because, generally, larger
populations have greater power requirements.
 How soon must the power system be operational? The need for speed will often override the ability
to design and resource materials to construct a more efficient power system. However, if the initial
power system is emplaced in power system modules, consolidation into a more sustainable system
will be easier to achieve and more cost effective.
 How long will the power system be required? It is difficult and inefficient to operate and sustain
multiple small power systems for an extended period of time (years). If longer duration missions
can be properly determined or planned for, power systems can be properly planned for
consolidation or upgraded accordingly to the deployable prime power system or a long-term
sustained power system.
 Will the power system utilize an existing power system or facilities? The decision to utilize
existing facilities may be expedient and enhance force protection, but may require repair,
modification, or upgrade to be made suitable for military use. The commercial standards of
construction may require modification to adapt to military power systems. The repair and/or
expansion of existing commercial facilities will require additional planning and design
consideration and may place challenges on logistics sustainment. Changes must equal or exceed
applicable building codes and standards.
 What voltage and frequency will be required? U.S. military power systems and equipment are
designed to operate at 120/208 volts at 60 hertz, and must comply with U.S. safety and
construction standards. The HN power system will almost certainly operate at a different voltage
or frequency and may not comply with U.S. safety and construction standards. Most HN power
systems will operate at 50 hertz and voltage will range from 220 to 240 volts and 380 to 415 volts.
Some office equipment may operate at either voltage standard, but adapters will most likely be
required to enable office equipment plugs to be inserted into HN power outlets (receptacles). It is
highly recommended to select a single standard and eliminate the necessity for disparate power
systems or utilization of complex power conversion equipment (transformers).
 What type of installation will the power system serve? ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP
3-17.7N) discusses several levels and capabilities of base camps and resultant power
considerations. The types of facilities and equipment, projected power consumption, and level of
services available will have a large impact on determining power system requirements. Getting
the right information will enable better planning and design decisions. Consider the following:
 Will the installation have large numbers of personnel or personnel centers requiring large
industrial-sized heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems?
 Will there be large, consolidated dining facilities? Will there be a hospital? Will there be
extensive, refrigerated/frozen food?
 Will Army and Air Force Exchange Service facilities, vendors, or support contractors be onsite?

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

11-7

Chapter 11





Will there be large logistics, transportation, and maintenance facilities or water purification
and ice production equipment?
 Will there be a large, consolidated laundry facility?
What power system assets are available, and are they sustainable? An initial assessment includes
a listing of serviceable power system equipment on-site or readily available. Decisions to utilize
or purchase nonstandard, commercial equipment must carefully consider whether the power
system is sustainable with readily available service and repair parts and whether trained
technicians are available to operate and maintain the equipment.

Note. An effective planning rule of thumb is that, for standard 120/208-volt power systems, the
total distance from the power source to the point of consumption should not exceed 300 feet. See
ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17 for additional information on electrical planning.

POWER PLANT SIZES FOR BASE CAMPS
11-28. Table 11-1 shows an example of estimated power plant sizes, in kilowatts, for supported populations
in standard base camps (basic, expanded, and enhanced). The top end of the population range for each base
camp size is multiplied by planning factors from ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N). These
estimates can be used for the initial, field-expedient planning of the total power requirements and plant sizes
for base camps when no other information is available. The base or base camp power system may initially
be constructed from tactical generators and then converted to prime power or may initially be constructed
using prime power plants and then be converted to commercial power generation systems, as discussed in
ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N). TM 5-811-6 provides detailed procedures for designing
power plants.
Table 11-1. Example of estimated power plant sizes, in kilowatts
Population
(x 1.25)

Size
Extra small

Basic Power Plant
(1.5 kw/per)

Expanded Power
Plant (2.5 kw/per)

Enhanced Power Plant
(3.5 kw/per)

374

561

935

1,309

Small

2,499

3,749

6,248

8,747

Medium

7,499

11,249

18,748

26,247

Large

> 7,500

Legend:
kw/per

Estimate the power plant size based on the planned population and planning
factors.

kilowatt(s) per person

DESIGN OF POWER SYSTEMS
11-29. Electrical systems include basic power generation, secondary distribution or wiring, and storage
capabilities.
Notes.
1. See TM 3-34.46/MCRP 3-17.7K for electrical system designs, layouts, installation
requirements, and maintenance.
2. See the AFCS program guidelines for standard electrical designs.
3. See UFC 3-500 series for electrical criteria requirements.
4. See ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17 for deployable prime power system designs.
5. See UFC 3-501-01 for electrical engineering details.
6. See TM 5-683/NAVFAC MO-116/AFJMAN 32-1083 for information on the maintenance of
interior electrical systems (600 volts and less).

11-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Power Systems

7. See TM 5-684/NAVFAC MO-200/AFJMAN 32-1082 for the maintenance and repair of
exterior electrical distribution systems.
8. See DA Pam 385-26, TM 5-682, and UFC 3-560-01 for electrical safety practices.

CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION, AND CONNECTION
11-30. Commanders, train, and license assigned personnel in the unit as tactical electric power system
operators, regardless of the personnel military occupational specialty (MOS). Marine Corps personnel
licensed as incidental operators may only operate power generation equipment up to 20 kilowatts in size.
Only personnel who hold MOS 1141 may establish power generation sites, operate power generation
equipment over 20 kilowatts in size, or install power distribution equipment. Licensed personnel operate
assigned equipment according to the operator instructions in technical manuals.
11-31. Licensed and electrical MOS trained personnel installs low-voltage tactical power systems, install
medium-voltage deployable prime power systems, construct or install facilities (interior) electrical systems,
and connect facilities to the power system.
11-32. Tasks related to constructing, installing, and connecting power systems include—
 Trenching and backfilling power cables in utility corridors.
 Placing concrete foundations for power system components.
 Constructing secondary containment berms for fuel systems.
 Installing power system components (includes generators, switchgears, transformers, and fuel
tanks).
 Installing utility poles and overhead conductors.
 Terminating, testing, and connecting power cables.
 Constructing enclosures for power system components.
 Testing and commissioning power systems prior to use.
 Assist in writing the scope of work for power system construction contracts.
11-33. The proper power system grounding and bonding of electrical components are essential to ensure
reliable system operation and protective device operation. This will also ensure that personnel are protected
from electrocution and shock due to equipment malfunction. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers Standard 142-2007 (commonly referred to as the Green Book) provides guidelines for electrical
system grounding and bonding. Additional standards govern power system construction and safe electrical
work practices.
11-34. Power systems that operate or will operate at the U.S. military standard 120/208 volts at 60 hertz
must be constructed to meet the standards outlined in National Fire Protection Code 70: National Electrical
Code; the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard 142-2007; the National Electrical Safety
Code; and applicable military standards and directives. Power systems that operate at different voltages or
frequencies must be constructed to meet HN electrical construction and safety standards. If the HN electrical
code is inadequate, then use the JCMS to plan electrical system construction.

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
11-35. Operating and maintaining power systems are labor-intensive. The continuous operation of large,
fixed plants exceeds the labor capabilities of the prime power platoons so plan accordingly.
11-36. Engineer prime power units will install, operate, and maintain the deployable prime power system.
They will be responsible for designing and safely employing the system. They will be responsible for the
interconnection between the deployable prime power system and the tactical power system. They will
coordinate fuel support and perform maintenance or repair as required. Construction unit support may be
required for trenches, concrete foundations, or other support to facilitate power system installation.
11-37. O&M for a sustained power system may range from a simple service contract for operator level
preventive maintenance checks and services to the more typical full service contract, which includes daily

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

11-9

Chapter 11

operation, fueling services, periodic maintenance, and repair as needed. A sustained power system contract
may include system construction and facility connections and repair. The sustained power system may utilize
power system equipment provided by the contractor or equipment purchased by the government to be used
by the contractor, or it may be a tactical power system or deployable power system whose operational
responsibility has been transferred to a contractor. See ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17 for additional
information on power system configurations.

POWER SYSTEM EXPANSION OR DOWNSIZING
11-38. Military operations usually require adding, moving, or upgrading facilities and equipment, which
necessitates changes in the power system. A well-designed power system should be able to support some
load growth without requiring major modification to the system. There are two basic methods:
 Over build. This method advocates intentionally overbuilding the system beyond initial
forecasted/calculated requirements. This easily allows for anticipated expansion or a surge in
demand. However, this is also very costly and is not an efficient use of power sources.
 Scalable build. This method allows a power system to be designed and constructed as scalable
modules for expansion or contraction. See ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17 for more information
about the modular design of power systems.
11-39. Smaller tactical power system modules can be consolidated onto larger tactical generators, with the
smaller generators remaining as redundant backup power for high-priority circuits/tactical facilities. The
larger modules can be further consolidated when transitioning to the deployable prime power system, which
provides much greater efficiency and reliability and minimizes the number of personnel required for O&M.
11-40. Mixing military and commercial power equipment requires specialized design considerations to
ensure that the system functions safely and efficiently.
11-41. Downsizing a power system requires safety considerations to ensure that any remaining or
abandoned equipment has been properly disconnected and isolated to minimize residual danger to personnel.
Downsizing may require consolidation of facilities to ensure that entire modules can be removed from the
power system, which minimizes isolated facilities remaining outside the power system footprint.

REDEPLOYMENT AND BASE CLOSURE
11-42. Redeployment and base closure require deliberate planning, which begins with a mission statement
of the desired end state. The command must determine which facilities and systems, if any, will remain for
HN use, which facilities and systems will be demolished, and which equipment is excess and requires
disposal. Plan to relocate supported units to allow the orderly demolition of facilities and systems. Conduct
an assessment to determine the serviceability of facilities, systems, and equipment and whether the assets are
suitable for transfer to the HN, if applicable.
11-43. Population and power requirements may temporarily increase during a retrograde. Plan temporary
lodging for a population surge, as required. If the location is a logistics or transportation hub, plan to seek
out additional areas that are suitable for temporary staging and equipment storage. Consider plans for security
lighting and additional support, as required.
11-44. Base closure and demolition work require an assessment of energized circuits and conductors before
any demolition work begins. Complete an electrical safety survey, and communicate the results to using
organizations who will be affected throughout the redeployment, transfer, or closure activities. Carefully
identify all energy sources and deenergize all circuits to prevent fires or electrocutions.
11-45. Plan accordingly to allow sufficient time for base closure activities. Contracted support for a
sustained power system may require 90 to 120 days or more prior to base closure, to terminate service, and
to dismantle and remove power system equipment. Engineer prime power units can assess the power system
and, if necessary, reestablish a deployable prime power system to support an orderly build-down process. As
redeployment progresses, the power system will eventually revert back to a tactical power system with unit
responsibility. Additional tactical generators may be needed for the final closeout. (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP
3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for additional base closure information.)

11-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Chapter 12

Water Production, Well Drilling, and Distribution
Water is vital to sustaining the force and must be made available in sufficient quantity
and quality for Soldier consumption, sanitation, medical, CBRN decontamination,
construction, and equipment maintenance. Water is an essential service to support
DSCA, stability, and foreign humanitarian assistance. Water supply requirements
depend on climatic and environmental conditions, terrain, and the type of operation
conducted. Water production and distribution are team efforts conducted by engineer,
quartermaster, medical, and tactical units. Logistics officers estimate unit water
requirements and plan required procurement, production, and distribution needs.
Commanders request engineer support when the logistics plan includes well drilling or
support for water supply points, the establishment of distribution systems, or water
utilities on base camps. This chapter covers water capabilities, planning and design
methods, detection procedures, production techniques, operation measures, and
distribution methods.

RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPABILITIES
12-1. This section discusses the responsibilities and capabilities of each Service in providing water
production, well drilling, and distribution. Capabilities vary between Services.

ARMY
12-2. The Secretary of Defense designated the Army as the executive agent for the management of landbased water resources in support of contingency operations. This applies to the support of land-based forces.
The Army is responsible for developing and maintaining an intelligence database to provide data on the
location, quality, and quantity of land-based water resources. USACE supports the Army G-4 in this effort
(see AR 700-136 and DODD 4705.1E).
12-3. The combat sustainment support battalion (attached to a sustainment brigade) executes logistics,
including water. Water production and distribution are sustainment unit tasks. Water production is a field
service and supply function. Quartermaster supply units normally perform water purification in conjunction
with the storage and distribution of potable water (see ADP 4-0).
12-4. The Army sustainment brigade provides material and supply management for water and synchronizes
the supply and distribution of water. Water supply includes the receipt, storage, inspection, testing, issue,
distribution, and accountability of water stocks for the area of operations. The combat sustainment support
battalion may contain water purification, distribution, and augmentation support companies that provide
water production, package capability, storage, and purification and distribute bottled and bulk water to the
area of operations. Tactical units have limited water production and distribution capabilities. In temperate
climates, water purification, packaging, storage, and distribution take place in the brigade support battalion.
Water reconnaissance is primarily a sustainment/combat service support unit responsibility. General
engineers assist the water reconnaissance team in water detection. The task to provide water support includes
purification, distribution, storage, and quality surveillance (ATP 4-93). See ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-17.7Q for
quartermaster water unit capabilities.
12-5. Army engineer units locate and develop water resources; provide well drilling; and construct, maintain,
and operate permanent and semipermanent water utility systems. Army engineer units provide infrastructure
support, facilities engineer support, and other engineer support, including well drilling, to bases and
installations. Tasks include the planning, design, construction, repair, maintenance, and operation of

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

12-1

Chapter 12

permanent and semipermanent water facilities. This includes water supply and distribution systems within
base camps, facilities, or buildings. Plumbing is a system of piping, apparatus, and fixtures for water
distribution and waste disposal within a facility or building. The facility engineer manages water utilities on
an installation or base camp.
12-6. USACE is another professional reachback resource for seeking comprehensive solutions to complex
water issues. With a staff of subject matter experts and an extensive system of testing and research
laboratories, USACE can assist in resolving unique water system challenges. USACE is capable of repairing
water purification, distribution, and storage systems.
12-7. Well drilling units turn wells over to a quartermaster unit or facilities engineer. Army engineer
organizations are responsible for the following water-related actions:
 Surveying, identifying, and compiling data pertaining to surface water sources to supplement
existing data.
 Compiling data using information (such as well-drilling logs and ground surveys) to establish
groundwater well-drilling sites.
 Providing well-drilling teams that are task-organized to nondivisional engineer units.
 Constructing and repairing rigid water storage tanks and water pipelines.
 Improving water point sites that require construction support.
 Constructing and maintaining permanent and semipermanent water utilities, including water wells,
at fixed Army installations.

MARINE CORPS
12-8. The Marine Corps maritime pre-positioning force has ships with the capability to purify water and
transfer it ashore.

NAVY AND AIR FORCE
12-9. The Navy and Air Force have engineer units designated to support infrastructure and well-drilling.
Navy ships have the capability to make potable water. In dire situations, some of that water can be transferred
ashore without impacting the ship's crew.

WATER DETECTION, TESTING, AND WELL DRILLING
12-10. The water detection response team is sponsored by USACE, which is the primary DOD organization
for assisting military well drillers for military, humanitarian, or nation-building activities. The water detection
response team provides military well drillers with specific information to help mission planners make
informed decisions and meet mission requirements. The primary function of the water detection response
team is to assist and advise well-drilling teams on the locations of the best well-drilling sites and depths and
to provide information on well-drilling conditions for logistics planners.
12-11. The hydrologic analysis team is staffed on an as-needed basis from a pool of civilian scientists and
engineers that represent various government agencies. The team possesses state-of-the-art, remote sensing
and geophysical equipment and has numerous bibliographic sources readily available for most areas of the
world. The water detection response team also offers a Hydrogeology for Military Well Drillers short course
upon request. Hydrologic analysis team support can be requested through the USACE Water Resource
Database website.
12-12. The Hydrologic Data Resources Application is an unclassified smartphone application created to
provide the water detection community with a way to access water resources information through data
collection, visualization, and dissemination. The water resources database is a geodatabase that contains the
location, quantity, and quality of land-based surface, ground, and existing water resources to support DOD
water logistics decisions. The Hydrologic Data Resources Application allows engineers in the field to view,
collect, and edit water resource features on smartphones, using mobile technology and government databases.
For more information on current Hydrologic Data Resources Application systems, see the USACE website.

12-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Water Production, Well Drilling, and Distribution

12-13. Water testing is normally conducted at the lowest level through local medical teams. See the Center
for Disease Control and Prevention website for further assistance. As a reachback resource, the center has
comprehensive water-testing capabilities that exceed those of local medical teams and a staff of subject matter
experts beyond local medical teams.

PLANNING AND DESIGN
12-14. Water support requirements are considered in the initial phases of each military operation. The
planning for water is initially based on the sustainment preparation of the operational environment. Logistics
planners use ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-40D.14 to estimate the required quantity and quality, based on the mission,
size of the supported force, dispersion of forces in the area of operations, and availability of various sources
of water supply. Logisticians use ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-40D.14 to plan water supply point, which include water
reconnaissance, source and point development, treatment, purification, storage, and distribution. See UFC 3230-01 and UFC 3-230-03 for design criteria for water storage, treatment, distribution, and transmission.
12-15. Water information determines the need for the early deployment of well drilling, water production,
and distribution units. Reconnaissance should include the evaluation of potential water sources, field
reconnaissance to support water detection, the evaluation of infrastructure, and the determination of support
requirements.

WATER QUALITY MONITORING
12-16. The production, treatment, and distribution of water provided by military forces and contractors are
monitored for sanitary control. The intent is to provide the highest-quality water to support and sustain the
health and performance of deployed personnel (see TB MED 577/NAVMED P-5010-10/AFMAN 48-138_IP
for more information).
12-17. The Army Public Health Command website provides information on drinking-water protection and
updates on other health-related issues. It also provides military units with technical support and expertise in
the areas of preventive medicine, public health, health promotion, and wellness.
12-18. There is a variety of technology available to monitor water on-site. Most are handheld devices that
are linked to digital platforms, which transfer data to laboratories that identify basic water quality parameters
and detect a wide range of microbial pathogens and chemical health hazards. The USACE can assist in
identifying the best devices for use by military units.

WATER WELLS
12-19. Water wells are engineer construction projects and must be planned, designed, managed, and
reported in the same manner as other projects. The detailed planning, designing, and drilling of wells is
discussed in NTRP 4-04.2.13/TM 3-34.469/AFMAN 32-1072. The Navy and Air Force maintain welldrilling capabilities, which are also addressed in this manual. Wells should be drilled in a secure area within
the area of operations and, if possible, within base camps or other facilities for which the water will be used.
The well-drilling team is inherently modular and deploys to the area of operations with the organic equipment
for well drilling.
12-20. Well-drilling teams are a theater engineer command asset and should be deployed, and employed
by, an engineer brigade or battalion capable of providing expertise and sustainment/logistics support.
Because the well-drilling team has limited personnel, the engineer headquarters must plan security at the
work site.

WATER FOR STABILITY AND HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
12-21. In planning support for stability tasks and foreign humanitarian assistance, consider water an
essential service. Engineers may restore the HN water service or develop the HN capability and capacity to
operate, maintain, and improve the water service.
12-22. Water may be required for human consumption, agriculture, livestock, or industrial use or to support
sanitary measures. The U.S. military may have to temporarily take over the repair and operation of a

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

12-3

Chapter 12

municipal water system until the local capability is restored. See the USACE website to obtain information
on water resources, including dams, irrigation systems, and transmission systems (aqueducts and tunnels).
12-23. When drilling a water well, avoid drilling into the same aquifer that the local populace is using. This
will eliminate the perception that the U.S. military is taking water from the local water supply.

BASE CAMP WATER SYSTEMS
12-24. Water systems include basic water supply and distribution systems for base camps, facilities, and
buildings. A water supply system receives and purifies water and then moves it to a storage tank or
distribution system. The water may come from a sustainment/combat service support unit distribution system
or from a surface water or groundwater source. The water distribution system is an arrangement of connected
pipes, control valves, pumps, and water heating equipment that carries the water to its destination.
12-25. When engineers or architects design a facility or building, they produce prints and specification plans
that detail the types and quality of materials to be used in the plumbing systems. Plumbing systems must
meet national plumbing code standards. The designer may provide a bill of materials, or a plumber may
compile it. The AFCS also provides a bill of materials for standard facilities. Plumbers use the prints,
specifications, and bill of materials to layout and plan the project. See TM 3-34.70 for the detailed planning
and design of plumbing systems, including basic water supply and distribution systems, sewerage systems,
hot-water supply systems, fire protection water systems, heating systems, and plumbing repair and
maintenance techniques.
12-26. Planning and designing for the efficient use of water on fixed facilities reduces resources that could
be best used for other operations. The efficient use of water includes using water-efficient fixtures in
buildings, using storm water runoff, and recycling and reusing water.
12-27. AFCS and JCMS provide planning and design details for water production, distribution, and utility
facilities. See ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-40D.14 for information on details of engineer support to
sustainment/combat service support unit water production and distribution. See ATP 3-37.10/MCRP
3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for water planning factors for base camps.
12-28. UFC 3-230-01 provides information on the design criteria for water storage, distribution, and
transmission. Transmission systems convey water from the source to the treatment plant and to the
distribution system. The water may be treated or untreated, depending on the location of the treatment plant.
Transmission system types include pipelines, aqueducts, and tunnels. See UFC 3-230-03 for additional
information on water treatment. See UFC 3-240-01 for design criteria for wastewater collection. See for
design criteria for wastewater treatment. See UFC 3-240-01 for information on industrial and oily wastewater
control. See TM 3-34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7 for details on waste management system design. See TM 334.70/MCRP 3-17.7E for details on plumbing system design. See UFC 3-230-02 for information on the O&M
of water supply systems. See UFC 3-240-13FN for information on the O&M of wastewater treatment
systems.

WATER PRODUCTION
12-29. Sustainment and engineer units contribute to water production to meet operational requirements.
Water supply units produce potable water. Water distribution units distribute potable water. Preventive
medicine personnel analyze, test, and certify water supplies. Together, these units ensure that there is enough
quality water production and distribution to continuously support the forces.
12-30. Engineer units support water production by conducting tasks including—
 Building combat roads and trails to establish traffic control patterns at the distribution site.
 Connecting existing roads.
 Clearing, preparing, and maintaining the site.
 Constructing water storage and production sites.
 Constructing improvised dams for impounding small streams to obtain a steady source of water.
 Constructing gravel pads to ensure a steady platform for operating reverse osmosis water
purification units.

12-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Water Production, Well Drilling, and Distribution









Constructing a brine pit (reverse osmosis water purification units support).
Digging intake galleries along banks of streams.
Improving drainage at the facility to prevent muddy conditions that may cause the area to become
unstable or unsafe.
Constructing pads for water storage blivets.
Constructing or repairing troop bed-down, protection, antiterrorism, and maintenance facilities.
Providing diving support for the emplacement and inspection of underwater utilities and offshore
water hoses and pipelines.
Rehabilitating damaged wells and distribution points.

12-31. Water-well drilling is provided to support water production. Well drilling may occur when—
 Surveys, analytical data, or hydrology studies confirm the likely presence of subsurface water in
areas.
 Surface sources of water are inadequate (due to quantity or quality) to support the force. (This is
likely to occur in arid terrain where the quantity of water required is high and surface sources are
low.)
 The distribution system lacks the capacity to support the force. (Haul distances may be
significantly reduced by a well that is drilled close to the consumer.)
 CBRN or other contamination is expected that would render surface sources unsafe.
 The mission is part of a humanitarian and civic assistance mission. A major portion of the world
population lacks access to sufficient sources of potable water. This makes well drilling a decisive
operation in stability or reconstruction and a critical part of the overall inform and influence
activities.) See ATP 3-57.10 for more information on relief activities.

WATER DETECTION
12-32. The effective detection of groundwater sources is critical for successful well-drilling. Without
proper analysis, the potential for finding an adequate source is less likely. Determining the most suitable sites
to drill for groundwater falls primarily on geospatial teams and water detection response teams.
12-33. Geospatial teams use data from the worldwide water resources database, terrain products, field
reconnaissance, geophysical surveys, and other geospatial products to recommend the best sites to conduct
well-drilling. They also have the reachback capability to access experts at the Army Geospatial Center to
obtain data and analysis from historical records and subject matter expertise to identify areas with a high
potential for developing water supply sources. Geospatial teams are not equipped or trained for actual
detection, only predictive analysis.
12-34. In unfamiliar terrain, well-drilling teams may drill exploratory test holes to detect groundwater, but
this method is costly and time-consuming. It is only recommended if other water detection methods are not
available or have been proven to be unsuccessful.

WELL-DRILLING OPERATIONS
12-35. Wells provide water to deployed forces. Well-drilling projects should be managed the same as any
construction project. The well-drilling team commander must coordinate closely with the construction or
operations officer of the higher headquarters unit to ensure timely reporting. Because well-drilling equipment
is inherently large and heavy, engineers must ensure its mobility in areas with poor trafficability. As the team
moves from project to project, the operations officer arranges the transfer of completed work to the user,
movement to the new project site, and additional sustainment/logistics and security arrangements.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

12-5

Chapter 12

12-36. Well-drilling includes auxiliary activities that consist of exploratory drilling, soil and rock sampling,
well installation monitoring, and construction and demolition support.
12-37. Drilling rigs are truck- or semitrailer-mounted. Current well-drilling and well completion equipment
consists of a 600-foot, well-drilling system (referred to as the LP-12) that includes—
 A truck-mounted drilling machine.
 A truck-mounted tender vehicle.
 A lightweight, well completion kit (including accessories, supplies, and tools required for drilling
a well).
12-38. The Army also uses the CF-15-S trailer-mounted, 1,500-foot, well-drilling machine and the 1,500foot well completion kit. The LP-12 replaced the CF-15-S and 1,500-foot well completion kit, but the CF15-S may still be forward-deployed for contingency operations.
12-39. The LP-12 can be deployed to anywhere in the world with minimal preparation and support
equipment. With the completion kit, drillers can construct a well to a depth of 600 feet using mud, air, or a
down-hole hammer equipped with or without foam injection. With the augmentation of an auxiliary 250cubic-feet-per-minute air compressor, a drill pipe, and 400 feet of drilling stem, the LP-12 can drill to depths
of 1,500 feet in a variety of soil conditions, using mud or drilling foam. Additional equipment includes casing
elevators and slips, larger drill bits, and an additional drill stem. Well-drilling teams should ensure that they
have the rig accessory kit for the LP-12 to be fully mission-capable. Although well-drilling systems can be
deployed rapidly, they are thin-skinned vehicles and need protection when moving around the battlefield.
12-40. The LP-12 is—
 Air-transportable by a C-130, C-5, or C-17.
 Equipped for tie-down and air-lift during transport.
 Equipped for air percussion drilling and for rotary drilling with mud or air.
 Equipped to drill wells up to a depth of 600 feet.
 Adaptable for drilling to a depth of 1,500 feet.
 Truck-mounted for mobility.
 A three-mode, water transfer pumping system.

DISTRIBUTION
12-41. Sustainment and engineer units both support water distribution tasks. Sustainment units deliver
water in packages, by line haul distribution in trucks, or by hose and pipelines. They distribute water to units,
storage tanks, bulk distribution areas, and hoses or pipelines that connect to plumbing supplies.
12-42. The tactical water purification system provides the military with mobile, tactical water purification
for a broad range of water sources to meet water requirements. The Army tactical water purification system
configuration is mounted on a load handling system-compatible flat rack, while the Marine version is skidmounted. The tactical water purification system platform can be efficiently transported by truck, marine
vessel, or fixed-wing aircraft. Although the system is intended for use by the Army and Marines, it can also
be used to provide potable water to civilian agencies or HNs during emergencies, disaster relief efforts,
humanitarian efforts, and peacekeeping missions.
12-43. The tactical water purification system uses state-of-the-art reverse osmosis technology to produce
1,500 gallons of potable water per hour from any source, including freshwater, seawater, brackish water, and
contaminated freshwater that contains nuclear, biological, and chemical agents. The tactical water
purification system can be operated by a small crew and includes a pretreatment system, a chemical injection
kit, a high-pressure pump, reserve osmosis elements, valves, piping, a wastewater collection system, an ocean
intake system, and a storage tank system. See TM 10-4610-309-10 (Army)/TM 10802A-OI/1A Vol 1 (Marine
Corps) for more information on the tactical water purification system. Engineer units plan, design, construct,
and provide limited maintenance to water distribution systems internal to base camps and facilities. They
also support sustainment/combat service support unit water distribution by planning, designing, constructing,
and maintaining fixed distribution facilities, such as rigid storage tanks and pipelines. The water supply may
come from existing sources, existing distribution systems, sustainment/combat service support units, or base

12-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Water Production, Well Drilling, and Distribution

camp water sources or wells. On a facility or installation, water is also called a utility. Distribution pipelines
enter a building and become plumbing to the point of use; then they become waste collection systems to the
point of storage, treatment, or recycling. Water distribution tasks include support to sustainment/combat
service support units installing—
 Pipelines.
 Plumbing supplies.
 Pipe fittings.
 Sewage matter.

HOSES AND PIPELINES
12-44. Purified water enters the distribution system from onshore or offshore water sources. Most water
supply units are equipped with two 10-mile segments of the tactical water distribution system. The tactical
water distribution system is composed of hoses used to transport potable water from wells, desalination
plants, and other sources over distances of less than 10 miles (per segment) to 20,000-gallon fabric storage
tanks. The system is capable of transporting water forward up to 80 miles at a rate of 600 gallons per minute
across level terrain. Sustainment unit water distribution is discussed in ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-17.7Q.
12-45. Engineers support the tactical water distribution system by providing horizontal and vertical work
for distribution points, leveling water storage pads, and assisting with the emplacement of the hose system
(including gap-crossing). The need to cross hard-surfaced roads and other obstacles requires engineers to
install culverts or emplace suspension kits at various locations throughout the hose system. Engineers assist
in water hose route selection, clearing, preparation, and maintenance.

PLUMBING, PIPE FITTING, AND SEWERAGE
12-46. Engineers support the life cycle of water, including plumbing, pipe fitting, and creating sumps for
water collection for recycling. Plumbing systems include water supply methods, water distribution systems,
plumbing fixtures, sewerage or waste systems, and recycling systems. See TM 3-34.70 for additional
information on plumbing, pipe fitting, and sewerage.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

12-7

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix A

Base Camp Construction Planning Factors
This appendix provides engineers with basic, necessary, common planning factors and
considerations for base camp construction. Use the information in this appendix for
initial planning to estimate requirements if there is no other-directed planning guidance
or theater-specific information provided. Additional information can be found in ATP
3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N), NTRP 4-04.2.5/TM 3-34.42/AFPAM 321020/MCRP 3-40D.5 (MCRP 3-17.7F), EP 1105-3-1, JP 3-34, the JCMS, FM 6-0, and
other documents as identified throughout this appendix. See UFC 4-010-01 for
planning factors used for the standoff and separation of facilities. See ATP 4-25.12 and
TM 3-34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7 for standoff planning factors for waste management areas.
Army Europe Regulation 420-100, Standards for Base Camps and Central Command
Regulation 415-1, The Sand Book, are examples of CCDR guidance that provide very
specific recommended minimum planning factors and construction standards for
facilities within base camps. Ammunition holding area planning factors may be found
in DA Pam 385-64. For medical facilities information, see the Health Facility Planning
Agency website.

BASE CAMP PLANNING SUMMARY
A-1. The tables in this appendix do not show an extra small base camp; they show small (population 500
and 1,500), medium (population 3,000), and large (population 10,000) base camps. (ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 340D.13 (MCRP 3-17.7N) for additional information.)
A-2. Planners can interpolate and extend the planning factors to other base camp populations. These tables
are intended to be used during the initial phase of planning for base camp construction and are not intended
to be a substitute for the required detailed planning. Table A-1 and table A-2, page A-2, provide a summary
of the engineer work effort and aggregate necessary for supported populations for indicated base camp
populations.
Table A-1. Summary table—base camp engineer construction effort
Short
Tons

A

Equipment
Hours

Man-Hours
Horizontal

Vertical

General

Total Man-Hours

2,755

77

3,506

33,175

10,232

46,913

7,698

247

8,124

86,047

26,331

120,502

15,138

503

15,093

171,012

53,730

239,835

50,460

1,680

51,093

570,040

179,100

800,233

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A-1

Appendix A

Table A-2. Summary table—base camp aggregate requirements
Base Camp Population

Course Aggregate,
in Cubic Yards

Fine Aggregate,
in Cubic Yards

500

450

620

1,500

1,700

2,485

3,000

3,320

4,820

10,000

11,200

16,066

GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EFFORT REQUIREMENTS
A-3. Table A-3 and table A-4 describe the general construction effort requirements for site preparation and
basic facilities for a 500-man base camp.
Table A-3. Construction effort—site preparation requirements
Facility

Size

Basis

Qty

Road, Class A, 1-inch,
multisurface, 1 mile

NA

As required

1,000 sq yd

Hardstand

Ver

Gen

0.2

58

NA

10

68

As required

4.0

168

NA

80

248

NA

As required

0.2

235

NA

84

319

1,000 sq yd

As required

4.0

288

NA

104

392

NA

As required

5.0

440

NA

160

600

Road, Class A, graded,
drained
Hardstand
Site prep, 1 acre
Legend:
gen
hor
NA
prep
qty
sq yd
ver

A-2

Man-Hours
Hor

Total

general
horizontal
not applicable
preparation
quantity
square yard(s)
vertical

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camp Construction Planning Factors

Table A-4. Construction effort—facilities requirements (temporary to semipermanent
standard/temperate climate/wood frame)
Facility

Size,
in feet

Basis

Qty

Shop, motor repair

48x48x14

1/100 veh

Storehouse

20x50x8

2 sq ft/man

Dispensary

20x60x8

1/500 men

Headquarters/unit supply

20x40x8

1/200 men

Barracks, 50-man

20x100x8

40 sq ft/man

Kitchen

Varies

1/250 men

Bathhouse/latrine

20x30x8

1 shower/10
men

Bathhouse/latrine

20x80x8

Quarters (office)
Guardhouse

Man-Hours
Hor

Ver

Gen

Total

1

55

1,185

287

1,527

1

32

461

136

629

1

33

1,290

115

1,438

3

84

1,293

240

1,617

10

450

7,510

1,860

9,820

2

154

10,352

3,788

14,294

1

24

941

61

1,026

1 shower/24
men

1

39

1,754

150

1,943

20x100x8

80 sq ft/office

1

45

869

186

1,100

20x60x8

1–250 men

1

33

626

115

774

Dayroom

40x60x8

5 sq ft/man

1

43

868

178

1,089

Power system

500 man

light/power

1

56

460

192

708

Boiler plant

Varies

1/2 dining/1/2
sleeping

1

208

4,112

1,200

5,520

Drainage

500 man

17.5 gpd

1

205

384

490

1,079

Water supply well

Varies

As required

1

396

Water tank

200 gal

As required

1

Water distribution

500 man

25 gpd/man

1

Sump fire

10,000 gal

effective radius,
500 feet

1

Legend:
gal
gen
gpd
Hor
qty
sq ft
veh
Ver

45

230

671

105

4

109

352

812

416

1,580

16

108

16

240

gallon(s)
general
gallons per day
horizontal
quantity
square foot (feet)
vehicle
vertical

SUPPORT AND STORAGE FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION PLANNING
FACTORS
A-4. Table A-5, page A-4, and table A-6, page A-4, provide construction planning information on motor
parks and Personnel or Marine support facilities.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A-3

Appendix A

Table A-5. Motor park
Base Camp Population

Area in Square Feet

500

61,760

*1,500

242,160

*3,000

541,200

*10,000

721,600

*Based on combinations of 500-man, 1,000-man, and 5,000-man
estimates.

Table A-6. Soldier or Marine support facilities
Facility

Criteria

Population
500

1,500

3,000 10,000

Dining

sq ft/person varies by unit size

NA

NA

NA

NA

Fire station

2.6 x size of vehicle + 90 sq ft

NA

NA

NA

NA

Detainee

250 sq ft/MP + 50 sq
ft/confinee

NA

NA

NA

NA

Bakery

0.6 sq ft/person supported

300

900

1800

6000

Laundry

sq ft/person varies by unit size

4.4

4.4

3.3

3.0

Dry cleaning sq ft/person varies by unit size

4.4

4.4

1.75

1.0

Chapel

1.785 sq ft/person

893

2,678

Craft/hobby

1 sq ft/person

500

1,500 3,000 10,000

Gymnasium

3.3 sq ft/person

165
0

4,950 9,900 33,000

Library

0.75 sq ft/person

375

1,125 2,250

7,500

Service club 7.5 sq ft/NCO; 9.5 sq ft/officer

NA

NA

NA

Post
exchange

1.2 sq ft/person

600

1,800 3,600 12,000

Post office

sq ft/person varies by unit size

NA

NA

0.5

0.5

Theater

sq ft/person varies by unit size

NA

NA

5.5

5.5

Legend:
NA

5,55 17,850

NA

not applicable

A-5. Table A-7, table A-8, and table A-9 provide examples of selected storage requirements planning factors
for base camps.
Table A-7. Covered/open storage requirements for 14 days of stockage
Base Camp Population

A-4

Covered Storage, in Square Feet

Open Storage, in Square Yards

500

44

1,330

1,500

132

3,990

3,000

265

7,980

10,000

882

26,600

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camp Construction Planning Factors

Table A-8. Cold storage requirements for 14 days of stockage
Base Camp
Population

Class I,
in Cubic Feet

Class VI,
in Cubic Feet

Class VIII,
in Cubic Feet

Class IX,
in Cubic Feet

500

585

155

34

12

1,500

1,755

465

101

36

3,000

3,510

930

202

72

10,000

11,690

3,095

672

238

Table A-9. Fuel storage
Base Camp Population

F-24/JP-8* (Barrels)

MOGAS* (Barrels)

500

1,980

4

1,500

5,940

12

3,000

11,880

24

10,000

39,600

80

*Assuming a stock objective of 8 days.
Legend:
F
JP
MOGAS

fuel
jet petroleum
motor gasoline

SOLDIER OR MARINE HOUSING
A-6. Table A-10, table A-11, and table A-12, page A-6, provide basic planning guidance for Service
member housing.
Table A-10. Service member housing
Base Camp Population

Officer,
in Square Feet

Enlisted,
in Square Feet

500

11,000

28,800

1,500

33,000

86,400

3,000

66,000

172,800

10,000

220,000

576,000

Note. Assumes 20/80 officer to enlisted ratio, 110 square feet/officer, and
72 square feet/enlisted.

Table A-11. Quality-of-life standards for tentage
Tier
Level

Bed-Down and Base Camp Living Standards

Tier I

Simple tent setup without floor, nonpermanent

Tier II

Wood floor, lights, pole-supported, two electrical outlets

Tier III

Slightly nicer wood floor, two-thirds wooden wall structure with frame, more than two
electrical outlets

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A-5

Appendix A

Table A-12. Selected tentage planning factors
Floor Area,
in Square Feet

Tent Type

Weight, Packed,
in Pounds

Volume, Packed,
in Cubic Feet

Tent, GP, small

198.9

163

26.2

Tent, GP, medium1

512.0

534

33.0

Tent, GP, large

936.0

665

69.0

Tent, expandable modular (temper)

640.0

2,192

200.0

Tent, maintenance, medium

640.0

1,798

62.0

1The Operation Joint Endeavor living standard was 10 Soldiers or Marines per each GP, medium, tent.

LEGEND:
GP

general purpose

ADDITIONAL PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
A-7. Table A-13 and table A-14 provide general planning factors for water, utilities, and transportation
requirements.
Table A-13. General planning factors for potable and nonpotable water requirements
Consumer

Rate of Consumption

Individual

3–6 gpd/per man

Base camp (basic-enhanced)

20–50 gpd/per man

Vehicles (tactical)

1/2–1 gpd/per vehicle

Remarks
NA
Include waterborne sewage
NA

Support Facilities
Hospital

200 gpd/per bed

20-hour operation

QM laundry company

64,000 gpd

20-hour operation

Road construction

10,000 g/km

Nonpotable, clean

Rockcrusher

22,500 gph

Nonpotable, clean

Concrete mixer

560 gph/140 gph

Nonpotable, clean

2.5 gpd/per man

Nonpotable, clean

Construction Equipment

Other Considerations
Sewage treatment requirements
LEGEND:
g/km
gpd
gph
QM

A-6

gallons per kilometer
gallons per day
gallons per hour
quartermaster

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Base Camp Construction Planning Factors

Table A-14. Selected transportation information
Air1

Sea

Land

Aircraft

Allowable
Cabin
Load, in
pounds

Allowable,
in
Cubic
Feet

Ship/
Barge
Type

Capacity,
in Long
Tons

Motor
Vehicle

Load, in
Short
Tons

C-5A

204,000

18,368

7,029

2,207.8

2.5-ton

C-130

35,000

2,818

7,005

570.0

C-17

167,000

NA

231A

KC-10A

169,350

12,980

B-747

180,000

NA

Rail2

Usable
Cube

2.5

Well flatcar

50 short
tons

12-ton
S&P

12.0

Small flatcar

12 short
tons

585.0

22.5-ton
flatbed

15.0

Boxcar

10 short
tons

231B

578.0

34-ton
trailer

25.0

Coach

40 pax

2,001

24/24 pax

60-ton
tractortrailer

40.0

Sleeper

32 pax

1Estimates are for peacetime payload planning.
2The maximum length of a train is 40 cars; the maximum net load of a train is 400 tons or 1,000 Soldiers

or Marines.
LEGEND:
NA
pax
S&P

not applicable
passengers
stake and platform

SUMMARY
A-8. The preliminary estimate performed when planning for base camp construction should contain the
following:
 Real estate required, in square feet or meters.
 Equipment hours required for construction.
 Man-hours required for construction, by construction skill.
 Materiel requirements, in short tons.
 Detailed cost estimate to allow a cost comparison of one or more base camp concept designs.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A-7

This page intentionally left blank.

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. Where Army and
joint definitions differ, (Army) precedes the definition. Terms for which ATP 3-34.40
is the proponent are marked with an asterisk (*). The proponent publication for other
terms is listed in parentheses after the definition.

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADR

airfield damage repair

AFCS

Army Facilities Components System

AOR

area of responsibility

ASCC

Army Service component command

BCT

brigade combat team

BLT

battalion landing team

CAAF

contractors authorized to accompany the force

CBRN

chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear

CCDR

combatant commander

COA

course of action

DA

Department of the Army

DD

Department of Defense (form)

DOD

Department of Defense directive

DODI

Department of Defense instruction

DSCA

defense support of civil authorities

EAB

echelons above brigade

EBS

environmental baseline survey

OESHA
EP

engineer pamphlet
engineering technical letter

G-3

assistant chief of staff, operations

G-4
G-9

assistant chief of staff, logistics
assistant chief of staff, civil affairs operations

JCMS
JFC
JLOTS

hazardous material
Joint Construction Management System
joint force commander
joint logistics over-the-shore

JOA

joint operations area

JTF

joint task force

LOTS

2023

occupational and environmental health site assessment

ETL

HAZMAT

A

Department of Defense

DODD

logistics over-the-shore

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

Glossary-1

Glossary

MAGTF

Marine air-ground task force

MCCC

Marine Corps component commands

MCPP

Marine Corps Planning Process

MDMP

military decision-making process

MOG

maximum (aircraft) on ground

MSCoE
MSR
NAVFAC

Maneuver Support Center of Excellence
main supply route
Naval Facilities Engineering Systems Command

NTTP

Navy tactics, techniques, and procedures

NWP

Navy warfare publication

O&M

operation and maintenance

OPLAN
OPNAVINST
OPORD

operation plan
Chief of Naval Operations instruction
operation order

Prime BEEF

prime base engineer emergency force

RED HORSE

rapid engineer deployable heavy operational repair squadron engineer

S-3
SECNAVINST
TB MED

battalion or brigade operations staff officer (USA); operations and training
officer/operations and training office (USMC)
Secretary of the Navy instruction
technical bulletin (medical)

TC

training circular

TEC

theater engineer command

TM

technical manual

TSPWG

Tri-Service Pavement Working Group

TWPS

Tactical Water Purification System

UFC

Unified Facilities Criteria

U.S.

United States

USACE
USC
USCENTCOM
USMC

United States Army Corps of Engineers
United States Code
United States Central Command
United States Marine Corps

SECTION II – TERMS
This section contains no entries.

Glossary-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

References
All websites accessed on 12 December 2022.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to the intended users of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. November 2022.
FM 1-02.1. Operational Terms. 9 March 2021.
FM 1-02.2. Military Symbols. 18 May 2022.
Marine Corps Supplement to the DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. 12 February 2018
(as amended through 10 September 2020).

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
These documents contain relevant supplemental information.

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND JOINT PUBLICATIONS
Most Department of Defense publications are available online at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/. Most
joint publications are available online at http://www.jcs.mil/doctrine/.
CJCSM 3130.03A. Planning and Execution Formats and Guidance. 25 November 2014.
CJCSM 3500.04F. Universal Joint Task Manual. 1 June 2011.
Contingency Contracting. Defense Contingency Contracting Handbook. April 2017.
https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/cc/ctr-handbook.html.
DODD 3025.18. Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). 29 December 2010.
DODD 4165.06. Real Property. 19 July 2022.
DODD 4270.05. Military Construction. 12 February 2005.
DODD 4705.01E. Management of Land-Based Water Resources in Support of Contingency
Operations. 3 June 2015.
DODI 4165.03. DOD Real Property Categorization.5 January 2023.
DODI 3025.21. Defense Support of Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies. 27 February 2013.
DODI 4715.19. Use of Open-Air Burn Pits in Contingency Operations. 13 November 2018.
DODI 4715.22. Environmental Management Policy for Contingency Locations. 18 February 2016.
JP 1 Vol 1. Joint Warfighting. 29 June 2020.
JP 2-0. Joint Intelligence. 26 May 2022.
JP 3-0. Joint Campaigns and Operations. 18 June 2022.
JP 3-05. Joint Doctrine for Special Operations. 22 September 2020.
JP 3-07. Joint Stabilization Activities. 11 Feb 2022.
JP 3-10. Joint Security Operations in Theater. 25 July 2019.
JP 3-15. Barriers, Obstacles, and Mine in Joint Operations. 26 May 2022.
JP 3-18. Joint Forcible Entry Operations. 27 June 2018.
JP 3-24. Counterinsurgency. 25 April 2018
JP 3-26. Joint Combating Terrorism. 30 July 2020.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

References-1

References

JP 3-27. Homeland Defense. 10 April 2018.
JP 3-28. Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 29 October 2018.
JP 3-29. Foreign Humanitarian Assistance. 14 May 2019
JP 3-34. Joint Engineer Operations. 6 January 2016.
JP 3-36. Joint Air Mobility and Sealift Operations. 4 January 2021.
JP 4-0. Joint Logistics. 4 February 2019.
JP 4-09. Distribution Operations. 14 March 2019.
JP 4-10. Operational Contract Support. 4 March 2019.
JP 4-18. Joint Terminal and Joint Logistics Over-the-Shore Operations. 5 December 2022.
JP 5-0. Joint Planning. 1 December 2020.

ARMY
Unless otherwise indicated, Army publications are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil/.
ADP 3-0. Operations. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-07. Stability. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-28. Defense Support of Civil Authorities. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-37. Protection. 31 July 2019.
ADP 3-90. Offense and Defense. 31 July 2019.
ADP 4-0. Sustainment. 31 July 2019.
ADP 5-0. The Operations Process. 31 July 2019.
ADP 6-0. Mission Command: Command and Control of Army Forces. 31 July 2019.
AR 190-8. Enemy Prisoners of War, Retained Personnel, Civilian Internees and Other Detainees.
1 October 1997.
AR 200-1. Environmental Protection and Enhancement. 13 December 2007
AR 210-20. Real Property Master Planning for Army Installations. 16 May 2005.
AR 385-10. The Army Safety Program. 24 February 2017.
AR 405-10. Acquisition of Real Property and Interests Therein. 14 May 1970.
AR 405-45. Real Property Inventory Management. 1 November 2004.
AR 405-90. Disposal of Real Property. 08 June 2020.
AR 415-16. Army Facilities Components System. 5 January 2018.
AR 420-1. Army Facilities Management. 12 February 2008.
AR 700-136. Tactical Land-Based Water Resources Management. 5 June 2009.
ATP 3-11.50. Battlefield Obscuration. 15 May 2014.
ATP 3-28.1/MCRP 3-30.6/NTTP 3-57.2/AFTTP 3-2.67/CGTTP 3-57.1. Multi-Service Tactics,
Techniques, and Procedures for Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). 11 February
2021.
ATP 3-34.5/MCRP 3-40B.2 (MCRP 4-11B), Environmental Considerations. 10 August 2015.
ATP 3-34.22. Engineer Operations–Brigade Combat Team and Below. 14 April 2021.
ATP 3-34.45/MCRP 3-40D.17. Electric Power Generation and Distribution. 6 July 2018.
ATP 3-34.80. Geospatial Engineering. 22 February 2017.
ATP 3-34.81/MCRP 3-34.3 (MCWP 3-17.4). Engineer Reconnaissance. 1 March 2016.
ATP 3-34.84/MCRP 3-10.2 [3-35.9A]/NTTP 3-07.7/AFTTP 3-2.75/ CGTTP 3-95.17.
Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Military Diving Operations. 2 Jan
2019.
ATP 3-37.10/MCRP 3-40D.13. Base Camps. 27 January 2017.

References-2

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

References

ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C. Survivability Operations. 16 April 2018.
ATP 3-39.30. Security and Mobility Support. 21 May 2020
ATP 3-39.32. Physical Security. 8 March 2022.
ATP 3-57.10. Civil Affairs Support to Populace and Resource Control. 6 August 2013
ATP 3-90.4/MCTP 3-34A. Combined Arms Mobility Operations. 10 June 2022.
ATP 3-90.8/MCTP 3-34B. Combined Arms Countermobility. 30 November 2021.
ATP 3-90.97. Mountain Warfare and Cold Weather Operations. 29 April 2016
ATP 3-90.98/MCTP 12-10C. Jungle Operations. 24 September 2020.
ATP 3-90.99/MCTP 12-10D. Desert Operations. 7 April 2021
ATP 4-0.1. Army Theater Distribution.29 October 2014.
ATP 4-10/MCRP 4-11H/NTTP 4-09.1/AFMAN 10-409-O. Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures for Operational Contract Support. 16 December 2021.
ATP 4-12. Army Container Operations. 12 February 2021.
ATP 4-13. Army Expeditionary Intermodal Operations. 16 April 2014.
ATP 4-14. Expeditionary Railway Center Operations. 22 June 2022.
ATP 4-25.12. Unit Field Sanitation Teams. 30 April 2014.
ATP 4-35. Munitions Operations. 31 January 2023.
ATP 4-35.1. Ammunition and Explosives Handler Safety Techniques. 8 November 2021.
ATP 4-43. Petroleum Supply Operations. 18 April 2022.
ATP 4-44. Water Support Operations. 16 December 2022.
ATP 4-45. Force Provider Operations. 24 November 2014.
ATP 4-93. Sustainment Brigade. 11 April 2016.
ATP 5-19. Risk Management. 9 November 2021.
DA Pam 385-1. Small Unit Safety Officer/Noncommissioned Officer Guide. 23 May 2013.
DA Pam 385-10. Army Safety Program. 23 May 2008.
DA Pam 385-26. The Army Electrical Safety Program. 1 February 2013.
DA Pam 385-64. Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards. 24 May 2011.
FM 3-07. Stability. 2 June 2014.
FM 3-34. Engineer Operations. 18 December 2020.
FM 3-39. Military Police Operations. 9 April 2019.
FM 3-63. Detainee Operations. 2 January 2020.
FM 3-90-1. Offense and Defense, Volume I. 22 March 2013.
FM 4-01. Army Transportation Operations. 3 April 2014.
FM 5-0. Planning and Orders Production. 16 May 2022.
FM 6-0. Commander and Staff Organization and Operations. 16 May 2022.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-11C. The Commander's Handbook on the Law of Land Warfare. 7 August 2019.
GTA 90-01-011. Deployed Forces Protection Handbook.
1 July 2019. https://rdl.train.army.mil/catalog/dashboard.
GTA 90-01-045. Flight Landing Strip Assessment, Clearance, and Repair. 1 August 2013
TB MED 577/NAVMED P-5010-10/AFMAN 48-138_IP. Sanitary Control and Surveillance of Field
Water Supplies. 1 May 2010.
TC 4-02.3. Field Hygiene and Sanitation. 6 May 2015.
TM 3-34.22/MCRP 3-17.1B. Military Nonstandard Fixed Bridging. 17 October 2013.
TM 3-34.30. Firefighting. 23 April 2015.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

References-3

References

TM 3-34.43/MCRP 3-17.7H/NAVFAC MO 330/AFMAN 32-1034_IP, Materials Testing, 3 April
2015
TM 3-34.44/MCRP 3-40D.4. Concrete and Masonry. 23 July 2012.
TM 3-34.46/MCRP 3-17.7K. Theater of Operations Electrical Systems. 3 May 2013.
TM 3-34.47/MCRP 3-40D.3. Carpentry. 29 July 2022.
TM 3-34.48-1, Theater of Operations: Roads, Airfields, and Heliports—Road Design, 29 February
2016.
TM 3-34.48-2, Theater of Operations: Roads, Airfields, and Heliports—Airfield and Heliport Design,
29 February 2016
TM 3-34.51. Construction Drafting. 15 June 2012.
TM 3-34.55. Construction Surveying. 3 August 2012.
TM 3-34.56/MCRP 3-40B.7. Waste Management for Deployed Forces. 29 March 2019.
TM 3-34.61. Geology. 12 February 2013.
TM 3-34.62/MCRP 3-17.7I. Earthmoving Operations. 29 June 2012.
TM 3-34.63. Paving and Surfacing Operations. 13 August 2013.
TM 3-34.65/NTRP 4-04.2.12/AFMAN 10-903. Quarry Operations. 30 October 2013.
TM 3-34.70/MCRP 3-17.7E. Plumbing, Pipe Fitting, and Sewerage. 23 July 2012.
TM 3-34.72. Pile Construction. 15 November 2013.
TM 3-34.73. Port Construction and Repair. 4 January 2013.
TM 3-34.82/MCRP 3-17.7L. Explosives and Demolitions. 7 March 2016.
TM 3-34.83. Engineer Diving Operations. 2 August 2013.
TM 3-34.85/MCRP 3-17A. Engineer Field Data. 17 October 2013.
TM 5-300. Real Estate Operations in Oversea Commands. 10 December 1958.
TM 5-301-1. Army Facilities Components System–Planning (Temperate). 27 June 1986.
TM 5-301-2. Army Facilities Components System–Planning (Tropical). 27 June 1986.
TM 5-301-3. Army Facilities Components System–Planning (Frigid). 27 June 1986.
TM 5-301-4. Army Facilities Components System–Planning (Desert). 27 June 1986.
TM 5-302-1. Army Facilities Components System: Design. 28 September 1973.
TM 5-303. Army Facilities Components System–Logistic Data and Bills of Materiel. 1 June 1986.
TM 5-304. Army Facilities Components System User Guide. 1 October 1990.
TM 5-610. Preventive Maintenance Facilities Engineering Buildings and Structures.
1 November 1979.
TM 5-622/NAVY MO-104/AFM 91-34. Maintenance of Waterfront Facilities. 1 June 1978.
TM 5-626. Unsurfaced Road Maintenance Management. 16 January 1995.
TM 5-682. Facilities Engineering Electrical Facilities Safety. 8 November 1999.
TM 5-683/NAVFAC MO-116/AFJMAN 32-1083. Facilities Engineering Electrical Interior Facilities.
30 November 1995.
TM 5-684/NAVFAC MO-200/AFJMAN 32-1082. Facilities Engineering Electrical Exterior
Facilities. 29 November 1996.
TM 5-803-5/NAVFAC P-960/AFM 88-43. Installation Design. 1 March 1981.
TM 5-811-6. Electric Power Plant Supply. 20 January 1984.
TM 5-814-7. Hazardous Waste Land Disposal/Land Treatment Facilities. 29 November 1984.
TM 5-818-1/AFM 88-3, chapter 7. Soils and Geology Procedures for Foundation Design of Buildings
and Other Structures (Except Hydraulic Structures). 21 October 1983.
TM 5-818-7. Foundations in Expansive Soils. 1 September 1983.
TM 5-818-8/AFJMAN 32-1030. Engineering Use of Geotextiles. 20 July 1995.

References-4

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

References

TM 5-820-1/AFM 88-5, chapter 1. Surface Drainage Facilities for Airfields and Heliports.
20 August 1987.
TM 5-822-14/AFJMAN 32-1019. Soil Stabilization for Pavements. 25 October 1994.
TM 5-850-1. Engineering and Design of Military Ports. 15 February 1983.
TM 5-852-1/AFR 88-19, Volume 1. Arctic and Subarctic Construction General Provisions.
4 September 1987.
TM 5-852-2/AFR 88-19, Volume 2. Arctic and Subarctic Construction Site Selection and
Development. 21 May 1990.
TM 5-852-3. Arctic and Subarctic Construction for Runway and Road Design. 29 October 1954.
TM 5-852-4/AFM 88-19, chapter 4. Arctic and Subarctic Construction Foundations for Structures.
15 October 1983.
TM 5-852-5/AFR 88-19, Volume 5. Arctic and Subarctic Construction Utilities. 31 August 1987.
TM 5-852-6/AFR 88-19, Volume 6. Arctic and Subarctic Construction Calculation Methods for
Determination of Depths of Freeze and Thaw in Soils. 25 January 1988.
TM 5-5420-278-10. Operator’s Manual for Improved Ribbon Bridge (IRB). 23 November 2015.
TM 5-5420-279-10. Operator’s Manual for Dry Support Bridge (DSB). 10 May 2004.
TM 10-4610-309-10 (Army)/TM 10802A-OI/1A Vol 1 (Marine Corps). Operator Manual for Tactical
Water Purification System (TWPS). 15 May 2008.

AIR FORCE
Most Air Force doctrinal publications are available online at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
AFMAN 91-201. Explosives Safety Standards. 28 May 2020.
AFPAM 10-219 V5. Bare Base Conceptual Planning. 30 March 2012.
AFPAM 10-1403. Air Mobility Planning Factors. 23 October 2018.
Air Force Doctrine Publication 3-34. Engineer Operations. 6 October 2021.
https://doctrine.af.mil/DTM/dtmengineerops.htm.

FACILITIES CRITERIA
Most Facilities Criteria documents are available online at www.wbdg.org/ccb/browse_cat.php?c=4.
FC 1-300-09N. Navy and Marine Corps Design Procedures. 1 May 2014.
TSPWG M 3-270-01.3-270-07. O&M: Airfield Damage Repair. 21 May 2020
UFC 1-200-02. High Performance and Sustainable Building Requirements. 1 December 2020
UFC 1-201-01. Non-Permanent DOD Facilities in Support of Military Operations. 04 March
2022.
UFC 1-300-08. Criteria for Transfer and Acceptance of DoD Real Property. 16 April 2009.
UFC 2-000-05N. Facility Planning for Navy and Marine Corps Shore Installations.
15 June 2021.
UFC 2-100-01. Installation Master Planning. 30 September 2020.
UFC 3-230-01. Water Storage, Distribution, and Transmission. 1 September 2018.
UFC 3-230-02. Operation and Maintenance: Water Supply Systems. 10 December 2019.
UFC 3-230-03. Water Treatment. 1 November 2012.
UFC 3-240-01. Wastewater Collection. 1 May 2020.
UFC 3-240-11. Landfills in Support of Military Operations. 24 March 2021.
UFC 3-240-13FN. Industrial Water Treatment Operation and Maintenance. 25 May 2005.
UFC 3-250-01. Pavement Design for Roads and Parking Areas. 14 November 2016.
UFC 3-250-03. Standard Practice Manual for Flexible Pavements. 30 May 2018.
UFC 3-250-04. Standard Practice for Concrete Pavements. 16 January 2004.
A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

References-5

References

UFC 3-250-08FA. Standard Practice for Sealing Joints and Cracks in Rigid and Flexible Pavements.
16 January 2004.
UFC 3-250-09FA. Aggregate Surfaced Roads and Airfields Areas. 16 January 2004.
UFC 3-250-11. Soil Stabilization and Modifications for Pavements. 30 November 2020.
UFC 3-260-01. Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design. 4 February 2019.
UFC 3-260-02. Pavement Design for Airfields. 30 June 2001.
UFC 3-260-03. Airfield Pavement Evaluation. 15 April 2001.
UFC 3-260-17. Dust Control for Roads, Airfields, and Adjacent Areas. 22 May 2018.
UFC 3-270-01. O&M Manual: Asphalt and Concrete Pavement Maintenance and Repair. 21 February
2018.
UFC 3-270-08. Pavement Maintenance Management. 16 January 2004.
UFC 3-310-08. Non-Expeditionary Bridge Inspection, Maintenance, and Repair. 17 July 2018.
UFC 3-501-01. Electrical Engineering. 6 October 2015.
UFC 3-520-01. Interior Electrical Systems. 6 October 2015.
UFC 3-550-01. Exterior Electrical Power Distribution. 1 September 2016.
UFC 3-560-01. Operation and Maintenance: Electrical Safety. 24 July 2017.
UFC 3-600-01. Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities. 6 May 2021.
UFC 3-601-02. Operation and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection
Systems. 7 October 2021.
UFC 4-010-01. DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings. 12 December 2018.
UFC 4-010-03. Security Engineering: Physical Security Measures for High-Risk Personnel.
8 February 2011.
UFC 4-010-05. Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities Planning, Design, and Construction.
1 February 2013.
UFC 4-020-01. DoD Security Engineering Facilities Planning Manual. 11 September 2008.
UFC 4-020-03FA. Security Engineering: Final Design (FOUO). 1 March 2005.
UFC 4-021-01. Design and O&M: Mass Notification Systems. 9 April 2008.
UFC 4-021-02. Electronic Security Systems. 1 October 2013.
UFC 4-022-01. Security Engineering: Entry Control Facilities/Access Control Points. 27 July 2017.
UFC 4-022-02. Selection and Application of Vehicle Barriers. 8 June 2009.
UFC 4-023-03. Design of Buildings to Resist Progressive Collapse. 1 Nov 2016.
UFC 4-023-07. Design to Resist Direct Fire Weapons Effects. 7 July 2008.
UFC 4-024-01. Security Engineering: Procedures for Designing Airborne Chemical, Biological, and
Radiological Protection for Buildings. 1 February 2017.
UFC 4-025-01. Security Engineering: Waterfront Security. 1 November 2012.
UFC 4-141-10. Design: Aviation Operation and Support Facilities. 22 September 2022.
UFC 4-150-02. Dockside Utilities for Ship Service. 12 November 2020.
UFC 4-150-06. Military Harbors and Coastal Facilities. 19 October 2010.
UFC 4-150-07. Maintenance and Operation: Maintenance of Waterfront Facilities. 19 June 2001.
UFC 4-150-08. Mooring Hardware Inspection. 28 October 2020.
UFC 4-151-10. General Criteria for Waterfront Construction. 10 September 2001.
UFC 4-152-01. Design: Piers and Wharves. 24 January 2017.
UFC 4-440-01. Warehouses and Storage Facilities. 1 April 2019
UFC 4-860-01. Railroad Design and Rehabilitation. 23 June 2022.
UFC 4-860-03. Railroad Track Maintenance and Safety Standards. 13 February 2008

References-6

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

References

MARINE CORPS
Most Marine Corps doctrinal publications are available online:
https://www.marines.mil/News/Publications.aspx
MCIP 3-03.1i/NWP 3-07/COMDTINST M3120.11. Maritime Stability Operations. 25 May 2012.
MCO 3440.7C. Marine Corps Roles and Responsibilities in Defense Support of Civil Authorities
(DSCA). 15 May 2019
MCWP 3-34. Engineering Operations. 14 February 2000.
MCWP 5-10. Marine Corps Planning Process. 10 August 2020.

NAVY
Most Navy doctrinal publications are available online at https://doctrine.navy.mil. (Requires DODapproved certificate login.).
NAVFAC MO-213/AFR 91-8/TM 5-634. Solid Waste Management. 1 May 1990.
NAVFAC P-73, Real Estate Procedural Manual. 10 September 2014. http://www.navfac.navy.mil
/products_and_services/am/about_us/resources.html.
NAVSEA OP-5 Volume 1, Ammunition and Explosive Safety Ashore. July 2017.
NAVSEA OP-5 Volume 3, Ammunition and Explosive Safety Ashore for
Contingencies, Combat Operations, Military Operations Other Than War, and
Associated Training. April 2007.
NTRP 4-02.9/AFTTP 3-2.82_IP/ATP 4-02.82, Occupational and Environmental Health Site
Assessment, April 2012
NTRP 4-04.2.3/TM 3-34.41/MCRP 3-40D.12. Construction Estimating,
October 2021.
NTRP 4-04.2.5/TM 3-34.42/AFPAM 32-1020/MCRP 3-40D.6 (MCRP 3-17.7F). Construction Project
Management. December 2012.
NTRP 4-04.2.13/TM 3-34.469/AFMAN 32-1072. Water-Well Drilling Operations. 1 December 2008.
NTTP 3-02.1M/MCTP 13-10E. Ship-to-Shore Movement. October 2018.
NTTP 3-10.1M/MCTP 3-34D. Seabee Operations in the Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF).
March 2015.
NTTP 4-04.3. Naval Contingency Engineering Operations. December 2008.
NWP 4-0M/MCTP 13-10K. Naval Logistics. March 2020.
NWP 4-04. Naval Civil Engineering Operations. December 2007.
OPNAVINST 11010.20H. Navy Facilities Projects. 24 June 2015.
SECNAVINST 11011.47C. Acquisition, Management, and Disposal of Real Property and Real
Property Interests by the Department of the Navy. 26 June 2019.
SS521-AG-PRO-010. U.S. Navy Diving Manual. 1 December 2016.
http://www.supsalv.org/pdf/Dive%20Manual%20Rev%206%20with%20Chg%20A.pdf.
TACMEMO 4-04.2-22, Expeditionary Rapid Airfield Damage Repair. August 2022.

OTHER PUBLICATIONS
These publications are available at http://uscode.house.gov/. United States Law publications are
available at https://www.ecfr.gov/.
10 USC. Armed Forces. http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10
-front&num=0&edition=prelim.
10 USC 2801. Armed Forces, General Military Law. http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=(title:10
section:2801 edition:prelim).
32 USC. National Guard. http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title32
-front&num=0&edition=prelim.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

References-7

References

49 USC 10901. Transportation, Interstate Transportation.
http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=(title:49 section:10901 edition:prelim).
40 CFR 261.2. Protection of the Environment. http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/textidx?SID=06350259669347fcd740addc950ae27f&node=pt40.26.261&rgn=div5#se40.26.261_
12.
Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. The Hague.
http://www.icrc.org/ihl/INTRO/400.
Convention (III) relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War. Geneva.
http://www.icrc.org/ihl/INTRO/375?OpenDocument.
Convention (IV) relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. Geneva.
http://www.icrc.org/applic/ihl/ihl.nsf/385ec082b509e76c41256739003e636d/6756482d86146
898c125641e004aa3c5.
Convention (IV) respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land and its annex: Regulations
concerning the Laws and Customs of War on Land. The Hague.
http://www.icrc.org/applic/ihl/ihl.nsf/385ec082b509e76c41256739003e636d/1d1726425f695
5aec125641e0038bfd6.
EM 385-1-1. Safety and Health Requirements - English. 30 November 2014.
https://www.publications.usace.army.mil/Portals/76/Publications/EngineerManuals/EM_3851-1.pdf?ver=7Cpck_22Ct_-w6QSGyOKVQ%3d%3d.
Emergency Support Function #3–Public Works and Engineering Annex.
http://www.usda.gov/documents/ESF03.pdf.
EP 415-1-261. Quality Assurance Representative's Guide - Architectural and Structural Features in
Building Construction -Vol 3. 1 August 1992.
https://www.publications.usace.army.mil/Portals/76/Publications/EngineerPamphlets/EP_415
-1-261_Vol-03.pdf?ver=rSykHTmMOXnwemHAD0QV6w%3d%3d.
EP 500-1-2. Emergency Employment of Army and Other Resources - Field Force Engineering - United
States Army Corps of Engineers Support to Full Spectrum Operations. 1 August 2010.
https://www.publications.usace.army.mil/USACE-Publications/EngineerPamphlets/u43545q/3530302D312D32/.
EP 1105-3-1. Planning: Base Camp Development in the Theater of Operations. 19 January 2009.
https://www.publications.usace.army.mil/USACE-Publications/EngineerPamphlets/u43545q/313130352D332D31/.
EP 1110-1-8. Construction Equipment Ownership and Operating Expense Schedule. 30 November
2018. https://www.publications.usace.army.mil/USACE-Publications/EngineerPamphlets/u43545q/313131302D312D38/.
Federal Standard 376B. Preferred Metric Units for General Use by the Federal Government.
27 January 1993. http://www.nist.gov/pml/wmd/metric/upload/fs376-b.pdf.
The Geneva Conventions of 1949 and their Additional Protocols. http://www.icrc.org/eng/war-andlaw/treaties-customary-law/geneva-conventions/.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard 142-2007. Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers Recommended Practice for Grounding of Industrial and Commercial
Power Systems. https://standards.ieee.org/standard/142-2007.html.
National Electrical Safety Code. https://standards.ieee.org/products-services/nesc/index.html.
National Fire Protection Act 70®, National Electrical Code. https://www.nfpa.org/codes-andstandards/all-codes-and-standards/list-of-codes-and-standards/detail?code=70.
A A 2 31 Orders for the Camouflage of the Red Cross and Red Crescent on Land in Tactical
Operations. 03 April 1
TSPWG M 3-270-01.08-2 Testing Protocol For Rapid Setting Rigid Repair Material. 5 October
2020. https://www.wbdg.org/ffc/dod/supplemental-technical-criteria/tspwg-m-3-270-01-08-2.
i r l i
i
p
il
r 2021

References-8

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

References

WEBSITES
Center for Disease Control and Prevention website, http://www.cdc.gov/, accessed on 8 December
2021.
Health Facility Planning Agency website, http://www.armyhealthfacilities.amedd.army.mil/index.html.
NAVFAC Engineering Criteria and Programs Office, National Institute of Building Sciences website,
https://wbdg.org/ffc/navy-navfac.
JCMS website, https://uroc-redi.usace.army.mil/sites/afcs/default.aspx.
Transportation Systems Center website, https://transportation.erdc.dren.mil/tsmcx/.
Unified Facilities Criteria Index, National Institute of Building Sciences website,
https://www.wbdg.org/ffc/nibs/criteria.
Army Combined Arms Center, Center for Army Lesson’s Learned website,
https://usacac.army.mil/core-functions/lessons-learned.
Army Public Health Command website, https://phc.amedd.army.mil/Pages/default.aspx.
Army Safety Center Website, https://safety.army.mil/.
Air Force Civil Engineer Center Website, http://www.afcec.af.mil/.
Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration Website,
https://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owastand.display_standard_group?p_part_number=1926
&p_toc_level=1.
Marine Corps Engineer School Training and Education Command Website,
https://www.trngcmd.marines.mil/Units/South-Atlantic/MCES/.
USACE Engineer Pamphlets Website,
http://www.publications.usace.army.mil/USACEPublications/EngineerPamphlets.aspx?
USACE Hydrology Website, http://www.agc.army.mil/Missions/Hydrology/AboutHyDRA.aspx.
USACE Publications Website, http://www.publications.usace.army.mil/.
USACE Reachback Operations Center Website, https://uroc.usace.army.mil.
USACE Technical Information Website, http://www.hnc.usace.army.mil/Missions/Engineering
/TECHINFO.aspx.
USACE Water Resource Database Website, https://water.usace.army.mil/a2w/f?p=100:1:0:#.
Whole Building Design Guide ETL Website, http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/browse_cat.php?c=125.
Whole Building Design Guide Website, http://www.wbdg.org.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website at
https://armypubs.army.mil/. DD forms are available on the Executive Services Directorate
website at https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/.
DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.
DD Form 1354. Transfer and Acceptance of DOD Real Property.
DD Form 1391. FY____ Military Construction Project Data.
DD Form 2993. Environmental Baseline Survey Checklist.
DD Form 2994. Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS) Report.
DD Form 2995. Environmental Site Closure Survey.

RECOMMENDED READINGS
ADP 2-0. Intelligence. 31 July 2019.

A

2023

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

References-9

References

AR 415-28. Real Property Category Codes. 15 April 2014.
AR 415-32. Engineer Troop Unit Construction in Connection With Training Activities. 18 June 2018.
ATP 2-01.3. Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield/Battlespace. 1 March 2019.
ATP 3-50.21. Survival. 18 September 2018.
DA Pam 405-45. Real Property Inventory Management. 15 September 2000.
DODD 4270.5. Military Construction Responsibilities. 12 February 2005.
FM 3-57. Civil Affairs Operations. 28 July 2021.
FM 3-90-2. Reconnaissance, Security, and Tactical Enabling Tasks, Volume 2. 22 January 2013.
JP 3-57. Civil-Military Operations. 28 July 2021.
JP 4-01. The Defense Transportation System. 18 July 2017
JP 4-03. Joint Bulk Petroleum and Water Doctrine. 11 January 2016.
STANAG 2238. Allied Joint Doctrine for Military Engineering–AJP-3.12, Edition 4. 20 January 2021.
https://nso.nato.int/protected/.
STANAG 2394. Allied Tactical Doctrine for Military Engineering—ATP-3.12.1, Edition A. 3
February 2016. https://nso.nato.int/protected/.
TM 3-34.64/MCRP 3-17.7G. Military Soils Engineering. 25 September 2012.
TM 5-627/NAVY MO-103/AFM 91-33. Maintenance of Trackage. 1 January 1980.
TM 5-698-1. Reliability/Availability of Electrical & Mechanical Systems for Command, Control,
Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR)
Facilities. 19 January 2007.
TM 5-814-3/AFM 88-11. Domestic Wastewater Treatment. 31 August 1988.
TM 5-822-9/AFM 88-6, chapter 10. Repair of Rigid Pavements, Using Epoxy Resin Grouts, Mortars,
and Concretes. 20 January 1989.
TM 5-822-11/AFP 88-6, chapter 7. Standard Practice for Sealing Joints and Cracks in Rigid and
Flexible Pavements. 11 June 1993.
TM 5-830-3/AFM 88-17, chapter 3. Dust Control for Roads, Airfields, and Adjacent Areas.
30 September 1987.
UFC 3-510-01. Foreign Voltages and Frequencies Guide. 1 March 2005.
UFC 3-520-05. Stationary Battery Areas. 1 May 2015.

References-10

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

A

2023

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.

A

G

AFCS, 3-65, 4-9
air traffic control landing systems,
6-40
airfield damage repair, 6-1, 6-70
ammunition storage, 5-94, 9-85
Army Facilities Components
System. See AFCS

general engineer unit, 1-6, 1-9, 211
geospatial teams, 12-32

B
base camp, 9-1, A-1,

C
construction, 10-7
new, 3-27, 10-42
contingency operation, 3-1, 3-45

D
decontamination, 2-44,9-34
defense support of civil
authorities. See DSCA
detention, 9-73, 9-107
drainage 3-112, 4-12
DSCA, 2-63

E
EBS, 3-93
engineer reconnaissance, 3-51, 370,7-39
engineering life cycle, 1-1
environmental baseline survey.
See EBS
explosive hazards, 6-70, 6-78

F
force projection, 1-23, 1-27, 2-1,
2-14

A

2023

H
HAZMAT, 3-18, 3-125
Hydrologic Data Resources
Application, 12-12

J
JCMS, 3-65, 3-119
Joint Construction Management
System. See JCMS

L
line of communications. See LOC
LOC, 1-22, 3-51, 7-64
logistics over-the-shore, 5-3, 9-11

M
master planning, 9-5, 9-8
MDMP, 3-26, 3-69
military decision-making process.
See MDMP

P
partner capacity, 1-29
Prime Base Engineer Emergency
Force. See Prime BEEF
Prime BEEF, 6-7, 7-15
protection,
financial, 10-21
fire protection, 3-125, 6-54, 958

Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy
Operational Repair Squadron
Engineer. See RED HORSE
reachback, 6-48
real estate, 10-1
acquisition, 10-3, 10-9, 10-23
rear area, 10-3
RED HORSE, 11-4
resettlement, 9-21

S
Seabees, 5-7
survivability, 1-23, 2-5

T
theater Army area command, 1047

U
Unified Facilities Criteria, 1-56, 3146

W
water detection, 12-32
water detection response team,
12-32
water supply, 12-14
sources, 12-33
units, 12-44
water testing, 12-4, 12-10
well drilling, 12-35

R
railroad bridge, 7-64

ATP 3-34.40/MCTP 3-40D (MCWP 3-17.7)

Index-1

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

A P33 0
P3 0
P3
A

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

A

ILL

General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

MARK F. AVERILL
Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army

DISTRIBUTION:
electronic media only (EMO).

Distributed in

2023

PIN 105043−000
PCN 147 00006501

