ATP 3-12.3

Electromagnetic Warfare Techniques
JANUARY 2023

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
This document supersedes ATP 3-12.3, dated 16 July 2019.

Headquarters, Department of the Army

Introduction
ATP 3-12.3 provides doctrinal guidance and direction to the Army for conducting
electromagnetic warfare during Army operations. This publication provides a
description of electromagnetic warfare roles, relationships, responsibilities, and
capabilities to support Army and joint operations.
ATP 3-12.3 nests with and supports FM 3-12 and JP 3-85. Readers should be familiar
with FM 3-0 and FM 6-0 to understand the fundamentals of integrating and
synchronizing electromagnetic warfare with Army operations.
ATP 3-12.3 provides techniques for Army electromagnetic warfare. It describes how
electromagnetic warfare supports and enables operations as well as other mission tasks
and functions at each echelon.
Electromagnetic warfare integrates into operations using already established joint and
Army processes such as the intelligence process, targeting, and the military decisionmaking process. This publication includes electromagnetic warfare staff responsibilities,
contributions to the military decision-making process and targeting, and the reliance on
intelligence preparation of the battlefield. It describes doctrinal techniques to address
future operational challenges with current electromagnetic warfare capabilities. Due to
rapidly evolving electromagnetic warfare capabilities and techniques, the Cyber Center
of Excellence will review and update ATP 3-12.3 as needed to keep pace with
continuously evolving threat electromagnetic warfare.
Chapter 1 provides an introduction to electromagnetic warfare, including
electromagnetic attack, electromagnetic protection, and electromagnetic support.
Chapter 2 discusses electromagnetic warfare professionals and their roles and
responsibilities. It discusses the relationships between staff members and their duties
during the planning and execution of electromagnetic warfare.
Chapter 3 captures how electromagnetic warfare aligns with each phase of the
operations process and discusses electromagnetic warfare contributions to the military
decision-making process. This chapter addresses staff contributions to electromagnetic
warfare planning and equipment configuration for successful employment.
Chapter 4 discusses planning, preparation, execution, and assessment considerations
for electromagnetic attack. This chapter also describes jamming techniques and their
characteristics and discusses electromagnetic attack in the targeting process.
Chapter 5 discusses electromagnetic protection techniques, including the integration of
electromagnetic warfare and signal planning to conduct electromagnetic protection. This
chapter provides radio users and staff techniques to prevent threat radio interception and
detection and targeting of friendly forces.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

vii

Introduction

Chapter 6 describes electromagnetic support planning and execution techniques to
include synchronizing signals intelligence resources that complement electromagnetic
support activities. This chapter outlines lines of bearing, cuts, fixes, establishing a
direction-finding baseline, and the causes of direction-finding errors.
Appendix A describes radio frequency propagation characteristics and the bands within
the electromagnetic spectrum.
Appendix B includes formulas used to determine transmission power requirements for
jamming radio receivers.
Appendix C discusses friendly electromagnetic warfare equipment and associated
characteristics, including ground and airborne electromagnetic warfare platforms.
Appendix D provides forms, formats, reports, and messages used to plan and execute
electromagnetic warfare and spectrum management operations.

viii

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Chapter 1

The Operational Environment and
Electromagnetic Warfare
This chapter provides an overview of electromagnetic warfare and
discusses the importance of electromagnetic warfare during Army
operations. This chapter also describes the electromagnetic warfare
divisions and provides an overview of the electromagnetic
environment.

OVERVIEW
1-1. Since the beginning of the 20th century, electromagnetic warfare (EW) has played
an ever-increasing role in shaping the outcomes of various military conflicts around the
globe. Electromagnetic warfare is military action involving the use of electromagnetic
and directed energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy (JP
3-85). The pioneers of radio recognized the military application of the electromagnetic
spectrum. In the decades that followed, state and non-state actors alike used radios to
support navigation, command and control, intelligence gathering, and information
operations. Radio communications are desirable targets due to their use in military
operations. Commanders learned to protect their radios while seeking to exploit,
degrade, or destroy threat spectrum capabilities.
1-2. Historically, EW has played significant roles in combat operations. During World
War II, British forces used radio transmissions to overpower German radio receivers.
The jamming missions successfully disrupted the Germans’ command and control
systems and navigation capabilities. Following World War II, the Army continued to
invest in EW competencies until the early 1990s.
1-3. During Operation ENDURING FREEDOM in Afghanistan and Operation IRAQI
FREEDOM in Iraq, the U.S. Army encountered threats to friendly bases, convoys, and
dismounted Soldiers as adversaries used radio-controlled improvised explosive devices
to attack ground forces. As a countermeasure to the threat, the Army acquired new
electromagnetic attack capabilities to jam radio-activated triggers and defend friendly
forces from explosive devices. The success of EW during these conflicts demonstrates
the value of its continued use and further refinement and development of tactics,
techniques, and procedures. EW is and will be increasingly vital to Army operations to
defeat peer threats in support of all combat operations and across all domains. As the
threat becomes more advanced and the operational environment becomes more
complex, the Army will need to continue building and developing EW competencies to
support decisive action and win in large-scale combat operations.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

1-1

Chapter 1

OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT
1-4. The operational environment encompasses all domains—air, land, maritime,
space, and cyberspace. The Army uses a multidomain approach to operations,
integrating joint and Army capabilities and synchronizing actions across all domains and
across the strategic contexts. Understanding the operational environment is essential for
Army leaders, engineers, planners, system operators, and cyber Soldiers to plan and
execute effective EW.

CONGESTED ENVIRONMENT
1-5. The extensive use of the electromagnetic spectrum creates competition for
bandwidth resources. All forces and supporting agencies depend on the electromagnetic
spectrum for communications, information collection, and EW capabilities in support of
operations in the air, land, maritime, space, and cyberspace domains.

CONTESTED ENVIRONMENT
1-6. Contested communications environments exist due to threat actions to degrade or
deny the operations of spectrum-dependent devices. EW elements conduct operations to
mitigate the effects of a contested environment.
1-7. Threat attacks may combine electromagnetic attack, other information warfare
effects, and lethal fires to deny friendly forces the use of spectrum-dependent systems.
To accomplish this goal, threat forces gather technical and combat information about
their enemies. As threat forces locate and identify friendly units, threat information
warfare elements establish priorities to—
 Jam communications assets.
 Deceptively enter radio networks.
 Interfere with the normal flow of U.S. and allies’ communications.
1-8. During competition, commanders base their planning and decisions on a
continually evolving understanding of their operational environment. Integrated EW,
signals intelligence, and cyberspace capabilities collect against and analyze threat
operational and tactical systems and other factors of the operational environment and
civil networks. This effort builds the information that allows a commander to visualize
the operational environment to a level of detail that allows centralized planning and
decentralized execution.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ENVIRONMENT
1-9. The Army and potential adversaries increasingly use weapons, threat warning
devices, sustainment information systems, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance,
and communications equipment that rely on the electromagnetic spectrum to operate.
The electromagnetic spectrum is a maneuver space consisting of all frequencies of
electromagnetic radiation (oscillating electric and magnetic fields characterized by
frequency and wavelength). The electromagnetic spectrum is organized into frequency
bands based on specific physical characteristics. The electromagnetic spectrum includes
1-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Operational Environment and Electromagnetic Warfare

radio waves, microwaves, infrared radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, x-rays,
and gamma rays (JP 3-85). The Army is dependent on the electromagnetic spectrum
across every domain. To prevail in future conflicts and achieve positions of advantage
against threat actors, Army forces will not only need to protect against threat actions,
but also target threat capabilities at the right time and place to open windows of
opportunity and relative advantage across all domains, particularly during large-scale
combat operations.
1-10. The Army operates using the electromagnetic spectrum in all geographic regions.
The electromagnetic environment is the resulting product of the power and time
distribution, in various frequency ranges, of the radiated or conducted electromagnetic
emission levels encountered by a military force, system, or platform when performing
its assigned mission in its intended operational environment (JP 3-85). The
electromagnetic environment is a subset of the spectrum, which might affect or is
relevant to a given operation. Technological advances in the past decade caused a rapid
increase in civil, commercial, and military spectrum-enabled and -dependent
capabilities. This proliferation, combined with the U.S. military’s reliance on the
electromagnetic spectrum and the low entry costs for adversaries, creates substantial
military challenges. The commander’s ability to maneuver and conduct operations
within the electromagnetic spectrum is vital to achieve and maintain tactical,
operational, and strategic advantages. To preserve warfighting capabilities, commanders
take actions to maintain freedom of action in the electromagnetic spectrum. See
appendix A for detailed information on the electromagnetic spectrum.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE DIVISIONS
1-11. EW is comprised of three distinct divisions: electromagnetic attack,
electromagnetic protection, and electromagnetic support. It is important to understand
the commander’s intent and coordinate, deconflict, and synchronize EW activities with
the other staff elements to increase combat effectiveness, protect the force, and project
power.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK
1-12. Electromagnetic attack is the division of electromagnetic warfare involving the
use of electromagnetic energy, directed energy, or antiradiation weapons to attack
personnel, facilities, or equipment with the intent of degrading, neutralizing, or
destroying enemy combat capability and is considered a form of fires (JP 3-85). See
chapter 4 for more information on electromagnetic attack.

ELECTROMAGNETIC PROTECTION
1-13. Electromagnetic protection is the division of electromagnetic warfare involving
actions taken to protect personnel, facilities, and equipment from any effects of friendly
or enemy use of the electromagnetic spectrum that degrade, neutralize, or destroy
friendly combat capability (JP 3-85). See chapter 5 for more information on
electromagnetic protection.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

1-3

Chapter 1

ELECTROMAGNETIC SUPPORT
1-14. Electromagnetic support is the division of electromagnetic warfare involving
actions tasked by, or under direct control of, an operational commander to search for,
intercept, identify, and locate or localize sources of intentional and unintentional
radiated electromagnetic energy for the purpose of immediate threat recognition,
targeting, planning and conduct of future operations (JP 3-85). See chapter 6 for more
information on electromagnetic support.

1-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Chapter 2

Electromagnetic Warfare Roles and Authorities
Electromagnetic warfare requires highly trained and skilled
personnel. This chapter discusses electromagnetic warfare
professionals and their unique and overlapping duties and
responsibilities. This chapter discusses the staff members with roles
and responsibilities when planning and conducting electromagnetic
warfare operations.

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
2-1. EW personnel on the staff are in the cyberspace electromagnetic activities
(CEMA) section at theater army through brigade echelons and consist of a cyber
electromagnetic warfare officer (CEWO), electromagnetic warfare technicians,
electromagnetic warfare noncommissioned officers, and spectrum managers. The
CEMA section includes EW-trained personnel, personnel trained in spectrum
management, and personnel trained in cyberspace operations. For more information on
cyberspace-trained personnel, refer to FM 3-12. EW personnel assigned to the CEMA
section are accountable to the chief of staff and the G-3 or S-3 for planning,
development, integration, and synchronization of EW. Battalions have a single EW
representative that is a member of the battalion staff.
2-2. EW personnel in the CEMA section plan and conduct EW across the range of
military operations. EW personnel conduct CEMA with assistance from, and in
coordination with, other members of the CEMA working group. FM 3-12 contains more
information on the CEMA working group. EW personnel plan the employment of
electromagnetic attack, frequencies for targeting, analyze the probability of frequency
fratricide, and collaborate with the G-6 or S-6 to mitigate harmful effects from EW to
friendly personnel, equipment, and facilities.
2-3. The CEWO disseminates key mission status information, such as cancellation of
electromagnetic attack, and coordinates with other staff members within the command
post to contribute to situational awareness. The CEWO coordinates with—
 The G-2 or S-2.
 The G-3 or S-3.
 The G-6 or S-6.
 The fires cell.
 The protection cell.
 Information advantage staff.
 The space support element.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

2-1

Chapter 2



The staff judge advocate.

ECHELONS THEATER ARMY THROUGH BRIGADE
2-4. The Army assigns EW personnel to CEMA sections at theater army, corps,
division, and brigade combat team. Each EW professional has specific roles and
responsibilities.

CYBER ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE OFFICER
2-5. The CEWO’s responsibilities regarding EW include—
 Integrating, coordinating, and synchronizing EW effects and activities into
operations.
 Nominating EW targets for approval from the fire support coordinator and
commander.
 Receiving, vetting, and processing EW targets from subordinate units.
 Developing and prioritizing effects in the electromagnetic spectrum.
 Developing and prioritizing targets with the fire support coordinator.
 Monitoring and continually assessing measures of performance and measures
of effectiveness for EW operations.
 Maintaining the CEMA staff running estimate.
 Coordinating targeting and assessment collection with higher, adjacent, and
subordinate organizations or units.
 Advising the commander and staff on plan modifications, based on the
assessment.
 Advising the commander how EW effects can impact the operational
environment.
 Providing recommendations for commander’s critical information
requirements.
 Drafting and transmitting the electromagnetic attack request format or other
applicable theater-specific electromagnetic attack requests.
 Participating in other cells and working groups, as required, to ensure
integration of EW operations.
 Deconflicting EW operations with the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager.
 Coordinating with the CEMA working group to plan and synchronize EW
operations.
 Assisting the G-2 or S-2 during intelligence preparation of the battlefield, as
required.
 Providing information requirements to support planning, integration, and
synchronization of EW operations.
 Exercising delegated electromagnetic attack control authority on behalf of the
commander the commander.

2-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Roles and Authorities

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE TECHNICIAN
2-6. The electromagnetic warfare technician—
 Serves as the EW technical and tactical subject matter expert to the CEWO
and to the CEMA, targeting, and other working groups.
 Plans and coordinates EW across functional and integrating cells.
 Provides input for the integration of threat electromagnetic order of battle
during intelligence preparation of the battlefield.
 Maintains and assists in the development of the CEMA staff running
estimate.
 Coordinates target information and synchronizes electromagnetic attack and
electromagnetic support activities with the G-2 or S-2 staff.
 Integrates EW into the targeting process, monitors EW target requests, and
conducts battle damage assessment for EW.
 Recommends employment of EW resources.
 Provides technical oversight and supervision for the maintenance of EW
equipment.
 Conducts, maintains, and updates an electromagnetic environment survey.
 Identifies enemy and friendly effects within the electromagnetic spectrum.
 Assists in the development and execution of standard operating procedures
and battle drills.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER
2-7. The electromagnetic warfare noncommissioned officer—
 Plans, manages, and executes EW tasks.
 Manages the availability and employment of EW assets.
 Serves as senior developer and trainer for EW.
 Distributes, maintains, and consolidates EW staff products.
 Collects and maintains data for electromagnetic environment surveys.
 Coordinates and deconflicts spectrum resources with the spectrum manager.
 Operates and maintains EW tools.

SPECTRUM MANAGER
2-8. There are spectrum managers in the G-6 or S-6 staff and the CEMA section. The
G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager coordinates spectrum resources that support the friendly
use of the electromagnetic spectrum. The CEMA section spectrum manager deconflicts
spectrum resources for EW activities and provides the EW input to the common
operational picture. The CEMA section spectrum manager duties and responsibilities
include—
 Leading, developing, and synchronizing the EW and electromagnetic
protection plan by assessing electromagnetic attack effects on friendly force
emitters.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

2-3

Chapter 2












Mitigating harmful impact of an electromagnetic attack on friendly forces
through coordination with higher and subordinate, adjacent units.
Synchronizing with the G-2 or S-2 on the electromagnetic attack effects to
support intelligence gain and loss considerations.
Synchronizing cyberspace operations to protect radio frequency-enabled
transport layers.
Coordinating support for the protection of radio frequency-enabled military
information support operations and psychological operations.
Collaborating with staff, subordinate, and senior organizations to identify
unit emitters for inclusion on the joint restricted frequency list (JRFL).
Updating guarded frequencies to the G-6 or S-6 staff for the JRFL.
Performing EW-related documentation and investigation of prohibitive
electromagnetic interference to support the G-6 or S-6 led joint spectrum
interference resolution (JSIR) program.
Participating in the CEMA working group to deconflict spectrum
requirements.
Advising and assisting with the planning and execution of EW operations.

Note. The JRFL is a concise list of restricted frequencies and networks
categorized as taboo, protected, and guarded. For more information on taboo,
protected, and guarded frequencies, see chapter 3.

AUTHORITIES
2-9. When conducting electromagnetic attack and electromagnetic support, there are
capabilities that require coordination across all echelons. The commander may delegate
these authorities to manage, prioritize, integrate, and synchronize EW capabilities.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK CONTROL AUTHORITY
2-10. Electromagnetic attack control authority is the authority usually delegated from
the joint force commander through component commanders, down to the lowest level
possible having the following attributes:
 Situational awareness of the electromagnetic operating environment.
 Positive control of the electromagnetic attack capability.
 Ability to monitor and assess electromagnetic attack transmission activity for
determining corrective action.
2-11. Electromagnetic attack control authority responsibilities include—
 Participating in development of, and ensuring compliance with,
electromagnetic spectrum coordination measures (such as the JRFL).
 Maintaining situational awareness of all electromagnetic attack-capable
systems and related operational parameters in the joint operations area.
 Assisting in resolving spectrum prioritization issues.
2-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Roles and Authorities




Coordinating with other Service components on electromagnetic attack
requirements.
Monitoring and assessing joint force electromagnetic attack transmission
activity for electromagnetic attack control authority compliance and
determining corrective action when necessary.

ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM COORDINATING AUTHORITY
2-12. The joint force commander normally delegates electromagnetic spectrum
coordinating authority to the joint staff J-3; however, core expertise and joint forceassigned mission will dictate actual assignment. The J-3 plans, coordinates, monitors,
manages, assesses, and prioritizes execution of joint electromagnetic spectrum
operations. The commander with delegated electromagnetic attack control authority will
normally grant direct liaison authority to the joint electromagnetic spectrum operations
cell director for execution of responsibilities that include—
 Directing the planning, development, publication, and issuance of joint
electromagnetic spectrum operations guidance (such as spectrum superiority
objectives or spectrum prioritization), the joint electromagnetic spectrum
operations plan, and spectrum operating instructions.
 Coordinating support of joint electromagnetic spectrum operations functions
across the joint staff.
 Incorporating spectrum guidance into the respective plans and orders.
 Establishing processes that integrate host-nation and other affected nations’
constraints and requirements.
 Coordinating with the joint frequency management office (if not incorporated
within the joint electromagnetic spectrum operations cell) to manage,
prioritize, integrate, synchronize, and deconflict use of the electromagnetic
spectrum.
 Developing broad policies and procedures for the coordination required
among all joint spectrum users.
 Developing policy, within intelligence community guidelines, for sharing
intelligence information to existing user-defined operational pictures.
 Consolidating Service component plans for operating in the electromagnetic
spectrum for joint force commander approval.
 Monitoring joint force actions to assess their effects on spectrum superiority
and mission objectives.

STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE
2-13. Various staff elements contribute to EW by providing unique products and
guidance to the CEWO during all phases of an operation. The same staff members
participate in the CEMA working group as necessary.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

2-5

Chapter 2

G-2 or S-2 Staff
2-14. The G-2 or S-2 staff advises the commander and staff on intelligence aspects of
EW operations. The G-2 or S-2 staff—
 Provides the electromagnetic order of battle to support programming of unit
EW systems.
 Maintains appropriate threat EW data.
 Maintains the signals intelligence (SIGINT) priorities of collection and
informs the staff for situational awareness.
 Maintains situational awareness of EW assets by accounting for organic and
requested capabilities on the intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
synchronization matrix.
 Ensures electromagnetic order of battle requirements are a part of the
information collection plan.
 Determines enemy organizations’ network structures, disposition,
capabilities, limitations, vulnerabilities, and intentions through collection,
analysis, reporting, and dissemination.
 Determines enemy EW vulnerabilities and high-payoff targets.
 Provides intelligence support to targeting operations.
 Assesses the effects of friendly EW activities on the enemy.
 Conducts intelligence gain or loss analysis for EW targets with intelligence
value.
 Aids in preparation of the intelligence-related portion of the EW running
estimate.
 Recommends guarded frequencies to the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager for
the JRFL.
 Provides updates to the electromagnetic order of battle.
 Participates in the CEMA working group to synchronize information
collection with EW requirements and deconflict planned EW activities.
 Coordinates electromagnetic support and SIGINT operations with the CEMA
section.

G-3 or S-3 Staff Responsibilities
2-15. The G-3 or S-3 staff is responsible for the overall planning, coordination, and
supervision of EW activities. The G-3 or S-3 staff—
 Plans for and incorporates EW into operation plans and orders, in particular
with the fire support and information advantage plans.
 Tasks EW activities to assigned and attached units.
 Exercises control over EW, including electromagnetic deception plans.
 Directs electromagnetic protection measures, such as emission control
(EMCON), terrain masking, and spectrum management based on
recommendations from the G-6 or S-6 staff, the CEWO, and the CEMA
working group.
2-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Roles and Authorities








Coordinates EW training requirements to maintain unit readiness.
Issues EW tasks as part of the information collection plan. These tasks are
according to the collection plan and the information requirements developed
by the G-2 or S-2 staff and the requirements manager.
Ensures, through the CEMA working group, that EW activities support the
overall plan.
Integrates electromagnetic attack in the targeting process.
Directs tasking of electromagnetic support and electromagnetic attack assets
in support of operations.

G-6 or S-6 Staff
2-16. The information systems technician, network management technician,
information services technician, spectrum manager, and information security manager
participate in planning EW. The G-6 or S-6 staff—
 Assists the CEWO with the preparation of electromagnetic protection policy.
 Reports enemy electromagnetic attack activity detected by friendly
communications elements to the CEMA working group.
 Identifies and deconflicts electromagnetic interference.
 Issues signal operating instructions.
 Ensures network connectivity for all EW computer systems.
 Provides spectrum resources to support the unit or task force (refer to ATP 602.70).
 Coordinates for spectrum usage with higher echelon G-6 or S-6, J-6, and
applicable host-nation and international agencies as necessary.
 Prepares the restricted frequency list and issues EMCON guidance.
 Coordinates frequency assignment and use.
 Supports the CEMA working group by assisting in the development of
electromagnetic deception plans and activities that include spectrum
resources.
 Coordinates with higher-echelon spectrum managers for JSIR reporting.
 Assists the CEWO in issuing guidance to the unit, including subordinate
elements, regarding deconfliction and resolution of electromagnetic
interference problems and processes involving EW systems.
 Participates in the CEMA working group to deconflict friendly spectrum
requirements with EW activities and information collection efforts.
 Supports all subordinate unit software updates and communications security
requirements.
 Compiles and distributes the JRFL (spectrum manager).
 Assists the EW section with computer maintenance and troubleshooting.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

2-7

Chapter 2

Information Advantage Staff
2-17. The information advantage staff coordinates, synchronizes, and deconflicts
activities to achieve objectives in the information dimension. Typically, but not solely,
these activities occur through cyberspace operations and EW. The information
advantage staff—
 Ensures synchronization and deconfliction with other information advantage
activities.
 Considers second- and third-order effects of EW on information advantage
activities and proactively plans to enhance intended effects.
 Analyzes the information dimension to discern how it affects unit operations
and to exploit opportunities to gain an advantage over threat forces.
 Assesses risk to mission and force associated with the employment of any
capability, product, program or message.

Staff Judge Advocate or Representative
2-18. The staff judge advocate provides legal advice to the commander. The staff judge
advocate or representative reviews proposed EW operations to ensure they comply with
existing DOD policies, rules of engagement, and applicable domestic and international
laws, including the law of armed conflict. The staff judge advocate may also obtain any
necessary authorities that are lacking.

2-8

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Chapter 3

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation,
Execution, and Assessment
This chapter discusses electromagnetic warfare contributions to the
military
decision-making
process
and
captures how
electromagnetic warfare aligns with each phase of the operations
process when supporting Army operations. This chapter addresses
staff contributions to planning electromagnetic warfare and
configuring equipment for successful employment.

SECTION I – ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MILITARY DECISION-MAKING
PROCESS
3-1. The military decision-making process is an iterative planning methodology to
understand the situation and mission, develop a course of action, and produce an
operation plan or order (ADP 5-0). The CEWO participates in the military decisionmaking process (MDMP) by planning and synchronizing EW and cyberspace operations
into the overall mission objectives. Depending on the commander’s intent, the scope,
and complexity of the operations, the CEWO considers joint, interorganizational, and
multinational dependencies and interdependencies of EW resources when participating
in the MDMP.

MILITARY DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
3-2. EW planners participate throughout the MDMP. In a time-constrained
environment, they follow the rapid decision-making and synchronization process. The
CEWO ensures planned EW activities contribute to the operation. Throughout the
MDMP, the CEWO continuously identifies risks and appropriate risk mitigation
techniques.
3-3. During the MDMP, the CEWO, with assistance from the CEMA section, conducts
terrain and radio wave propagation analysis relevant to friendly and threat forces within
the area of operations. The analysis results contribute to staff products, such as map
overlays depicting EW assets and their associated ranges of effectiveness. The staff uses
the products to refine the EW portions of the plan. The CEMA section builds and staffs
operation order appendixes and annexes and submits them to the G-3 or S-3 staff for
dissemination. The CEWO provides electromagnetic attack information to the fires staff
for inclusion in Annex D of the operation order.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-1

Chapter 3

3-4. The CEMA section considers policies, laws, and rules of engagement that affect
EW operations when participating in the MDMP. The staff judge advocate and the
CEMA working group develop the rules of engagement for commander review. Planners
and the staff judge advocate clarify the rules of engagement or develop supplemental
rules of engagement when necessary.
3-5. EW planners synchronize EW activities with other lethal and nonlethal
capabilities to achieve desired effects. The CEWO uses predetermined formulas to
calculate electromagnetic attack. For additional information on predetermined formulas
and jamming calculations, see appendix B.

SECTION II – PLANNING
3-6. Planning is the art and science of understanding a situation, envisioning a desired
future, and determining effective ways to bring that future about (ADP 5-0). EW
planning minimizes fratricide and optimizes operational effectiveness during mission
execution. The CEWO must participate throughout the MDMP. Refer to FM 3-12 for
more information about EW planning and the MDMP.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE PLANNING
CONSIDERATIONS
3-7. Commanders and staffs use the operational variables (political, military,
economic, social, information, infrastructure, physical environment, and time) and
mission variables of mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available,
time available, civil considerations, and informational considerations—METT-TC (I) to
understand the environment and aid in mission planning. Commanders and staffs view
all the mission variables in terms of their impact on mission accomplishment. These
variables can have major impacts to operations at all levels. (Refer to FM 6-0 for a
detailed description of the operational and mission variables).

PLANNING FACTORS
3-8. EW planning considerations include equipment type, configurations, logistics,
availability of equipment and qualified personnel, and risks. Staff planners with the
necessary expertise, and in some cases access to sensitive compartmented information
facilities, are essential for planning EW and related capabilities. EW integration requires
placing planners at the brigade combat team level with experience in capabilities, such
as special technical operations and special access program effects.
3-9. The CEWO visualizes an operational environment and electromagnetic
environment using the Electromagnetic Warfare Planning and Management Tool
(EWPMT) or other simulation programs to predict the behavior of radio waves used
during operations. The course of action proposed by the CEWO requires analysis to
determine the capabilities and limitations of the systems. For example, manpack EW
systems are lightweight and highly mobile, but also have line of sight limitations, and
limited transmit power for electromagnetic attack. Vehicle-mounted systems allow for
3-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

higher power output, but have line of sight limitations in dense terrain. Airborne
platforms offer the best line of sight of EW systems, but are vulnerable to enemy air
defenses and have limited dwell time on target. Line of sight is the unobstructed path
from a Soldier’s weapon, weapon sight, electronic sending and receiving antennas, or
piece of reconnaissance equipment from one point to another (ATP 2-01.3).

LOGISTICS CONSIDERATIONS
3-10. Units conduct scheduled and demand maintenance on EW equipment.
Maintenance ensures readiness for current and future operations. The CEWO, with
assistance from logistics staff, develops a standard operating procedure that includes
maintenance procedures. The CEWO or representative prioritizes maintenance efforts
ensuring unity of effort, as maintainers are a limited resource.
3-11. The planner considers—
 An EW capability replacement plan for potential coverage gaps and
unexpected outages.
 Parts availability for maintenance to prevent non-mission capable equipment.
 Access to programming equipment or planning for new software or firmware
update files.
 Power resources including:

Batteries.

Generators and fuel.

Shore power.

Vehicle or transport power sources.
3-12. Commanders allocate EW resources to support various units. When EW resources
support another unit, the supported unit—
 Identifies EW requirements.
 Protects and defends EW assets.
 Provides logistical support.

HAZARDS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION
3-13. Like other military actions, conducting EW involves risks. Throughout the
planning process, the CEWO continuously identifies operational risks and appropriate
risk mitigation techniques. There are three broad risk categories to consider when
planning EW activities in support of mission objectives. The CEWO helps identify these
risks and further aids in developing mitigating measures to reduce the risk to friendly
personnel and equipment. For more information about risk management, refer to
ATP 5-19. The risks include—
 Hazards of electromagnetic radiation to personnel.
 Hazards of electromagnetic radiation to fuels.
 Hazards of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-3

Chapter 3

Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Personnel
3-14. Hazards of electromagnetic radiation to personnel is the danger to personnel from
the absorption of electromagnetic energy by the human body. Personnel hazards are
associated with the absorption of radio frequency (RF) energy above certain power
levels in certain frequency bands for certain lengths of time. Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers standards C95.1, C95.6, and C95.7 specify the allowable amounts
of radiation and personnel exposure time to RF fields at particular intensities and
frequencies.

Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Fuels
3-15. Hazards of electromagnetic radiation to fuels is associated with the possibility of
igniting fuel or other volatile materials through RF energy-induced arcs or sparks. It
takes a certain amount of arc energy to ignite fuel. This is a significant concern when
there is limited separation between EW capabilities and fuel, such as airfields, forward
armament and refueling points, and refueling on-the-move locations. Fortunately, there
are many operational safeguards against this problem.

Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance
3-16. Hazards of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance refers to the susceptibility of
electro-explosive devices to RF energy. Electro-explosive or electrically initiated
devices are the control devices to detonate explosives, launch ejection seats, cut tow
cables, and perform other similar functions. Modern communications and radar
transmitters can produce high levels of electromagnetic energy that are potentially
hazardous to ordnance. These high levels of energy can cause premature actuation of
sensitive electro-explosive and electrically initiated devices.

RUNNING ESTIMATE
3-17. A running estimate is the continuous assessment of the current situation used to
determine if the current operation is proceeding according to the commander’s intent
and if planned future operations are supportable (ADP 5-0). Each staff element
maintains its own running estimate within its own area of expertise to help commanders
develop an initial understanding of their operational environment and to maintain timely
assessment as the operation progresses. The EW running estimate is a tracking tool used
to maintain awareness of EW capabilities. The EW running estimate provides a
consolidated list of information about cyberspace and the electromagnetic spectrum to
assist the CEMA section in planning, preparing, and executing operations. EWPMT
provides a dynamic EW picture of the operational environment and allows for mission
simulation and tracking to aid in updating the running estimate. For more information
on EWPMT, see appendix C.
3-18. The operational variables—political, military, economic, social, information,
infrastructure, physical environment, and time—and the mission variables of METT-TC
(I) guide development of the running estimate. The CEWO prepares and continually
updates the running estimate with assistance from other members of the CEMA section.
3-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

Resources useful in developing a running estimate are the unit status report and the
commanders’ training assessment. Threat information is available from online
databases, unit intelligence assets, and national intelligence sources. Table 3-1 is an
example of an EW running estimate.
Table 3-1. Example of an electromagnetic warfare running estimate
Electromagnetic Warfare Running Estimate
1.

Friendly electromagnetic warfare systems.
a. System nomenclature and disposition by echelon.
i. Planning, modeling, and simulation tools.
ii. Organic systems.
iii. Echelons above corps and joint assets.
b. System capabilities.
i. Frequency range.
ii. Modulation type(s).
iii. Maximum power output.
iv. Antenna configuration and characteristics.
v. Command and control details (mesh network parameters, data paths,
and bandwidth requirements).
c. Modeling and simulation of each system based on differing parameters
and area of operations
i. Differing power ratios.
ii. Antenna configuration.
iii. Terrain.
d. Constraints and limitations associated with each system.

2.

Threat electromagnetic warfare systems.
a. System nomenclature and disposition by echelon.
b. System capabilities.
i. Frequency range.
ii. Modulation type(s).
iii. Maximum power output.
iv. Antenna configuration and characteristics.
v. Command and control details (mesh network parameters, data paths,
and bandwidth requirements.
c. Threat electromagnetic warfare tactics, techniques, and procedures.
d. Modeling and simulation of each system, based on differing parameters
and area of operations.
e. Critical capabilities and vulnerabilities by system.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-5

Chapter 3

Table 3-1. Example of an electromagnetic warfare running estimate (cont.)
3.

Threat spectrum-dependent systems.
a. System nomenclature and disposition by echelon.
b. System characteristics.
i. Frequency ranges.
ii. Bandwidth requirements.
iii. Power.
iv. Modulation.
c. Tactics, techniques, and procedures.
d. Frequency allocations.
e. Cueing cycles (radar sets).
f. Modeling and simulation of each system, based on differing
parameters and area of operations.
g. Critical capabilities and vulnerabilities by system.

4.

Civil infrastructure considerations.
a. Networks in the area of operations.
i. SCADA.
ii. Internet service providers.
iii. Fiber (regional, national, and international).
b. Spectrum resources and allocations (with characteristics of each).
i. Wi-Fi.
ii. Broadcast television.
iii. Broadcast radio.
iv. Satellite ground stations.
c. Physical access to structures and equipment.

LEGEND:
SCADA supervisory control and data acquisition
VHF
very high frequency

Note. Table 3-1 is only an example of a running estimate and does not include
all information that may be gathered and tracked. Running estimates are
situational and information will depend on the operation.
3-19. The CEWO analyzes the operation and EW employment considerations early in
the MDMP. These considerations include—

3-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment









Survivability of personnel and equipment.
The time required to build or improve the unit’s electromagnetic protection
posture and position electromagnetic attack and electromagnetic support
capabilities.
Ability of EW resources to achieve the desired effects.
Reprogramming of EW assets.
Capabilities, limitations, advantages, and disadvantages of available EW and
SIGINT assets.
Intelligence available for targeting.

SURVIVABILITY
3-20. The survivability of personnel and equipment relies on force protection and
electromagnetic protection techniques. Electromagnetic protection enhances force
protection efforts as another method to mitigate environmental and threat effects. The
CEMA section plans the mitigation actions, and the commander decides what risk is
acceptable. Risk mitigating techniques include coordinating ground or air escort and
configuring EW equipment. Electromagnetic protection contributes to survivability.
Antennas erected to minimum heights while maintaining communications, prevent
detection and direction finding by the threat. This technique contributes to survivability.
Site defense plans contribute to overall survivability. Survivability is a valuable criterion
for course of action analysis during the MDMP. For more information about
electromagnetic protection, see chapter 5.

TIME
3-21. The CEWO uses available time to configure and position EW assets for optimal
performance. Time also affects the selection of movement techniques for a mission. The
CEWO synchronizes electromagnetic attack operations with maneuver and fire to
maximize effects at the appropriate time. The CEWO also plans the duration of
electromagnetic attack effects based on target analysis to support survivability of EW
assets.

EFFICACY
3-22. The CEWO considers which EW asset has the appropriate level of efficacy for an
EW mission. Efficacy is the likelihood that an EW mission will achieve the desired
effect. For example, an electromagnetic attack has a minimum transmission power
threshold. Transmission power settings below the threshold have reduced levels of
efficacy, or ability to achieve the desired effect. In contrast, transmission power settings
above the threshold have increased levels of efficacy.

AVAILABILITY OF AIRBORNE ASSETS
3-23. Maintenance activities and other missions reduce the availability of aircraft to
support EW requirements. Airborne platforms may be unavailable to support EW
missions due to—
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-7

Chapter 3







Poor weather and limited visibility that restrict flight.
Scheduled and demand maintenance.
Transport missions.
Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions.
Communications missions.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE REPROGRAMMING
3-24. Electromagnetic warfare reprogramming is the deliberate alteration or
modification of electromagnetic warfare or target sensing systems, or the tactics and
procedures that employ them, in response to validated changes in equipment, tactics, or
the electromagnetic environment (JP 3-85). When EW or SIGINT forces observe that
the threat has changed frequencies for communications or there are other changes in the
electromagnetic environment, the CEWO ensures the reprogramming of EW systems or
target sensing systems, to include the employment technique. EW reprogramming
includes changes to self-defensive systems, offensive weapons systems, and
electromagnetic support systems (JP 3-85). The change in the electromagnetic
environment may also affect friendly communication systems. The CEWO informs the
spectrum manager of the changes to EW requirements to coordinate the adjustment in
mission parameters and may recommend friendly communications frequency changes
to the G-6 or S-6. Reprograming EW equipment is the responsibility of the unit;
however, units should be aware of reprogramming efforts when operating with
multinational forces. Reprogramming is a national responsibility due to the effect on the
electromagnetic environment. Refer to JP 3-85 for more information about
reprogramming. EW reprogramming examples include—
 Changing target frequencies for jamming as well as updating restricted
frequencies.
 Changing location of sensors due to environmental changes or interference.
 Installing the latest available software, firmware, and hardware for EW and
SIGINT equipment.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE VISUALIZATION
3-25. The CEMA section visualizes and simulates the electromagnetic spectrum,
manmade effects, and environmental impacts. The information the section gains informs
friendly actions and may provide insight into possible enemy courses of action. EWPMT
and other automated tools assist the CEMA section with—
 Providing input to the common operational picture.
 Displaying sensor information from EW and SIGINT assets including—

Detecting emitters and plotting lines of bearing.

Analyzing circular error probable ellipse.
 Conducting mission planning and rehearsals.
 Managing EW assets.
 Modeling and visualizing how the spectrum responds to friendly and enemy
EW activities.
3-8

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

3-26. The CEMA section analyzes the electromagnetic spectrum using—
 Electromagnetic sensors.
 Threat system databases.
 Intelligence information.
 Operational environment factors.
3-27. EW personnel require updates as the situation changes. The tools, combined with
staff interaction and the command and control system, provide the updates.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE PLATFORM CONSIDERATIONS
3-28. The employment of EW is based on specific ground-based, airborne, and
functional electromagnetic attack, electromagnetic protection, and electromagnetic
support considerations. The CEWO identifies EW employment considerations early in
the operations process. Each consideration has certain advantages and disadvantages.
The staff plans for all of these before executing EW operations.

Ground-Based Electromagnetic Warfare Considerations
3-29. Soldiers can use ground-based EW equipment when dismounted or on mobile
platforms. Due to the short-range nature of tactical direction finding, electromagnetic
support assets are usually located in the forward areas of the battlefield, with or near
forward units.
Advantages
3-30. Ground-based EW capabilities have certain advantages. They provide direct
support to maneuver units through counter radio-controlled improvised explosive device
electromagnetic warfare (CREW), and communications or sensor jamming. Soldiers use
ground-based EW capabilities to support continuous operations and respond quickly to
the ground commander’s EW requirements. However, to maximize the effectiveness of
ground-based EW capabilities, maneuver units must protect EW assets from enemy
ground and aviation assets. EW teams should be as survivable and mobile as the force
they support. Maneuver units provide logistical support for the EW assets, and supported
commanders must clearly identify EW requirements.
Limitations
3-31. Ground-based EW capabilities have certain limitations. They are vulnerable to
enemy electromagnetic deception and electromagnetic attack activities. In addition, they
have distance or propagation limitations against enemy electromagnetic systems. As
with any spectrum-based system, units must properly program EW equipment to avoid
friendly interference and compatibility issues.

Airborne Electromagnetic Warfare Considerations
3-32. While ground-based and airborne EW planning and execution are similar, they
significantly differ in their employment time. Airborne EW operations happen at much
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-9

Chapter 3

higher speeds and generally have a shorter duration than ground-based operations.
Therefore, the timing of support from airborne EW assets requires detailed planning.
3-33. Airborne EW requires—
 A clear understanding of the supported commander’s EW objectives.
 Ground support facilities.
 Liaisons between the aircrews providing the EW effects and the aircrews or
ground forces supported.
 Protection from enemy aircraft and air defense systems.
Advantages
3-34. Airborne EW capabilities have certain advantages. They can provide direct
support to other tactical aviation missions such as suppression of enemy air defenses,
destruction of enemy air defenses, and employment of high-speed antiradiation missiles.
They can provide greater mobility and flexibility and extend the range of
electromagnetic attack and electromagnetic support capabilities beyond line of sight.
Limitations
3-35. Limitations associated with airborne EW capabilities include limited time on
station, vulnerability to enemy electromagnetic attack, enemy air defense,
electromagnetic deception techniques, and limited availability.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE CONFIGURATIONS
3-36. EW equipment requires proper configuration for successful employment. Units
use EW equipment in manpack, vehicular, fixed-site, and airborne configurations.
Equipment configuration includes—
 Choosing omnidirectional or directional antennas.
 The physical placement of equipment.
 Selecting power resources for EW equipment.

Gasoline or diesel-powered power generators.

Batteries for manpack and vehicular configurations.

Shore power for fixed EW assets.

MANPACK CONFIGURATIONS
3-37. Manpack configurations include electromagnetic attack and electromagnetic
support capabilities and provide commanders the option to employ teams in areas not
easily accessible by vehicle-mounted equipment. For manpack configurations, the
CEWO considers—
 Weight of antennas and batteries carried by the Soldier.
 Limits to available transmit power for electromagnetic attack.
 Limits to mobility of collection teams.
 Limits to mission duration (normally 3–5 days).
3-10

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

VEHICLE-MOUNTED CONFIGURATIONS
3-38. Vehicle-mounted EW equipment provides electromagnetic attack and
electromagnetic support capabilities during maneuver or at-the-halt. Vehicle-mounted
EW configurations include—
 Mounted and dismounted capabilities.
 Jamming capabilities.
 Direction-finding capabilities for locating and targeting threat transmitters.

FIXED-SITE CONFIGURATIONS
3-39. Fixed-site EW configurations have more available transmit power than manpack
and vehicular EW configurations. Fixed-site EW configurations have multiple
transmitters, receivers, and antennas that enable the conduct of multiple EW activities
simultaneously. A fixed site may include portable systems that require configuration and
operation only at-the-halt, requiring personnel to install or construct the system.

AIRBORNE CONFIGURATIONS
3-40. Airborne EW is the coupling of EW assets to airborne platforms, such as
unmanned aircraft systems, tethered balloons, and rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft.
Airborne EW assets provide greater range and mobility than ground-based assets.
3-41. The synchronization of airborne EW missions requires detailed planning. The
time on target for airborne EW assets coupled to rotary- and fixed-wing platforms is
normally brief. Time on target for airborne EW is limited due to the flight speed of the
aircraft. The short time on target is also a technique used to minimize the threat’s
abilities to detect the platforms using visual, direction-finding, or radar detection
techniques.
3-42. Airborne EW activities require liaisons between the aircrews of the platform and
the supported ground forces. Liaisons ensure—
 Situational awareness of mission support by platform.
 The supported unit is aware of platform protection tactics, techniques, and
procedures to counter threat aircraft and air defense systems.
3-43. Airborne platforms are low-density, high-demand resources. CEWOs consider
airborne platforms for EW, SIGINT, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions in the
deep area. Airborne assets are limited by the extensive maintenance requirements for
the aviation platform. If a unit has 12 airborne platforms with three on mission, nine are
likely to be undergoing maintenance, returning from a mission, or in-flight to relieve an
ongoing mission.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-11

Chapter 3

OTHER STAFF SECTIONS’ CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE PLANNING
3-44. The CEMA section depends on other staff sections for various products to support
situational understanding, targeting, and electromagnetic protection. The G-2 or S-2,
G-6 or S-6, and the staff judge advocate contribute to EW planning.

G-2 OR S-2 STAFF
3-45. EW planners rely on the G-2 or S-2 staff for all-source intelligence identified
during intelligence preparation of the battlefield to assist in defining the electromagnetic
operational environment. The CEWO submits requests for information to address gaps
identified during intelligence preparation of the battlefield.
3-46. In most cases, the CEWO relies on the SIGINT-derived enemy electromagnetic
order of battle for EW targeting. Likewise, EW assets can sometimes discover SIGINT
collection opportunities due to the capabilities of EW platforms. Therefore, the G-2 or
S-2 staff collaborates and coordinates with the CEWO to align EW and SIGINT assets
against the commander’s information requirements to achieve the best possible
outcomes. SIGINT and EW resources, synchronized with the commander’s scheme of
maneuver, significantly enhance situational awareness while increasing the precision of
the targeting process.
3-47. Useful products the G-2 or S-2 creates or assists in creating include—
 High-payoff target list.
 Electromagnetic order of battle.

G-6 OR S-6 STAFF
3-48. The CEWO uses the JRFL and friendly network architecture to plan EW and
avoid electromagnetic interference. The CEWO and the G-6 or S-6 use this information
to develop the unit electromagnetic protection plan. The JRFL includes—
 Taboo frequencies.
 Protected frequencies.
 Guarded frequencies.

Taboo Frequencies
3-49. Taboo frequencies are friendly frequencies that should never be deliberately
jammed or interfered with by friendly forces. Usually, these include international
distress, safety, and controller frequencies. They are generally long-standing
frequencies. Taboo frequencies may be time-oriented, and the restrictions may be
removed as the tactical situation changes. During crisis or conflict, short duration
electromagnetic attack may be authorized on taboo frequencies for self-protection to
provide coverage from unknown threats or threats operating outside their known
frequency ranges, or for other reasons.

3-12

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

Protected Frequencies
3-50. Protected frequencies are friendly frequencies used for a particular operation,
identified, and protected to prevent inadvertent jamming by friendly forces while
executing electromagnetic attack against hostile forces. These frequencies are so critical
that jamming should be restricted unless necessary or until coordination with the
engaged unit is made. They are generally time-oriented and may change with the tactical
situation. It is important to update protected frequencies periodically.

Guarded Frequencies
3-51. Guarded frequencies are threat frequencies currently being exploited for combat
information and intelligence. A guarded frequency is time-oriented in that the list
changes as the threat assumes different combat postures. These frequencies may be
jammed after the commander has weighed the potential operational gain versus the loss
of the technical information. For more information about taboo, protected, and guarded
frequencies, refer to JP 3-85.

STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE
3-52. Conducting EW requires an understanding of the rules of engagement and legal
authorities. The CEWO consults the staff judge advocate or legal advisor for
interpretation of the standing rules of engagement. The staff judge advocate or legal
advisor reviews EW activities to ensure compliance with existing DOD policies, rules
of engagement, and applicable domestic and international laws, including the law of
armed conflict.
3-53. When considering electromagnetic attack or electromagnetic support, the staff
judge advocate or legal advisor will assist in the planning of operations and will review
past operations. As part of this assistance, the staff judge advocate considers what
impacts operations may have on host-nation communications and the legal implications
related to those impacts. Refer to FM 6-27 for more information on rules of engagement
and FM 3-12 for more information on EW authorities.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE CONTRIBUTIONS
TO THE STAFF
3-54. The CEWO collaborates with, and provides information to, other staff sections to
aid in planning. This information answers requests for information and aids in refining
staff products.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO G-2 OR S-2 STAFF
3-55. The CEWO contributes to intelligence preparation of the battlefield and
throughout the MDMP by providing input related to EW activities. Intelligence
preparation of the battlefield involves systematically and continuously analyzing the
mission variables of METT-TC (I) in the area of operations. Commanders and staffs use

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-13

Chapter 3

intelligence preparation of the battlefield to develop situational understanding. Some of
the CEWO’s input to intelligence preparation of the battlefield includes—
 Information regarding how the electromagnetic environment affects the
operational environment.
 Input to likely threat courses of action by providing information on threat
spectrum-dependent capabilities, tactics, techniques, and procedures.
 Input to the commander’s critical information requirements, including
friendly force information requirements and priority intelligence
requirements.
3-56. When evaluating how the electromagnetic environment affects an operational
environment, the CEWO—
 Analyzes the electromagnetic environment and identifies known or suspected
threat emitters of interest and neutral emitters in the area of operations.
 Identifies facilities which may support or house enemy EW capabilities.
 Contributes to the G-2 or S-2 understanding of the enemy’s use of the
electromagnetic spectrum.
3-57. When describing the effects of an operational environment on EW activities, the
CEWO—
 Conducts terrain analysis of both the land and air domains using the factors
of observation and fields of fire, avenues of approach, key and decisive
terrain, obstacles, and cover and concealment.
 Identifies terrain that protects communications and target acquisition systems
from threat collection and direction-finding activities.
 Identifies how terrain affects line of sight, including effects on both
communications and noncommunications transmitters.
 Evaluates how vegetation affects radio wave absorption and antenna height
requirements.
 Locates power lines and their potential to interfere with radio waves.
 Assesses likely air and ground avenues of approach, their dangers, and
potential support that EW activities could provide for them.
 Determines how weather—including visibility, cloud cover, rain, and wind—
may affect ground-based and airborne EW activities and capabilities, for
example, when poor weather conditions prevent airborne EW launch and
recovery.
 Assists the G-2 or S-2 staff with the development of the modified combined
obstacle overlay.
 Considers all other relevant aspects of an operational environment that affect
EW activities, using the operational variables (political, military, economic,
social, information, infrastructure, physical environment, and time) and
mission variables of METT-TC(I).
3-58. The CEWO contributes to the G-2 or S-2 staff’s understanding during enemy
course of action development by providing—
3-14

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment






Subject matter expertise on enemy EW tactics, techniques, and procedures
for enemy situation template development.
A review of named areas of interest and target areas of interest to confirm
EW considerations.
EW options to support decision points.
EW input to the event template and event matrix.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE TARGETING WORKING GROUP
3-59. The targeting working group recommends priorities for targets according to its
judgment and the advice of the fires cell, targeting officer, and the field artillery
intelligence officer. Targeting is the process of selecting and prioritizing targets and
matching the appropriate response to them, considering operational requirements and
capabilities (JP 3-0). The targeting working group maintains a high-payoff target list
and informs the commander of targets that do not support the commander's guidance. A
high-payoff target is a target whose loss to the enemy will significantly contribute to the
success of the friendly course of action (JP 3-60). The high-payoff target list includes
the recommended priority of targets, target engagement sequence, target category, and
a name or a number. The CEWO provides input to the high-payoff target list.
3-60. The CEWO recommends to the G-3 or S-3 staff and the fire support element
whether to engage a target with EW. The fires support element uses the decide, detect,
deliver, and assess methodology to direct friendly forces to attack the right target with
the right asset at the right time. The targeting working group provides the high-payoff
target list to the operations, intelligence, and fires support elements. The staff employs
the high-payoff target list to understand and determine attack guidance and to refine the
collection plan. This list may also indicate the commander's operational need for battle
damage assessment of the specific target and the time window for collecting and
reporting it (ATP 3-60).
3-61. The CEWO participates in the targeting process. After the targeting working
group approves an EW target, the CEWO deconflicts the electromagnetic attack activity
with the friendly use of spectrum resources. To support targeting, the CEWO—
 Matches EW resources with specific high-payoff targets and high-value
targets.
 Ensures EW activities meet targeting objectives.
 Deconflicts electromagnetic attack with friendly use of the spectrum.
 Coordinates with the G-2 or S-2 staff to gain targeting information that
supports electromagnetic attack.
 Manages EW missions through the command post or joint operations center
and the tactical air control party for airborne electromagnetic attack.
 Exercises electromagnetic attack control authority, if delegated.
 Requests theater-level EW support.
 Informs the commander, staff, and subordinate units of current and planned
locations of EW resources.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-15

Chapter 3

SECTION III – PREPARATION
3-62. Preparation is those activities performed by units and Soldiers to improve their
ability to execute an operation (ADP 5-0). Preparation begins before arrival on the
battlefield and continues through the redeployment phase. Preparation involves
processes and activities that units perform to improve their ability to execute an
operation. Preparation includes, plan refinement, rehearsals, information collection,
coordination, inspections, and movement.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE PREPARATION
3-63. EW preparation ensures timely support for the commander’s scheme of maneuver
and includes—
 Initiating EW training that includes actual and simulated resources and
environments.
 Reviewing maintenance activities to ensure that EW equipment is clean and
serviceable.
 Planning, initiating, and reporting the movement of EW resources.
 Coordinating route clearance and escort requirements to mitigate risk and
prevent delays during maneuver.
 Revising and refining the EW estimate, EW tasks, and EW to support the
plan.
 Rehearsing the synchronization of EW and SIGINT to support the plan,
including integration into the targeting process, procedures for requesting
joint assets, procedures for deconfliction, and asset determination and
refinement.
 Synchronizing the collection plan and intelligence synchronization matrix
with the attack guidance matrix and EW input to the operation plan or order
annexes and appendixes.
 Assessing the planned task organization developed to support EW operations,
including liaison officers and organic and nonorganic capabilities required by
echelon.
 Coordinating procedures with intelligence elements.
3-64. During preparation, the CEMA section—
 Synchronizes the EW running estimate with the SIGINT running estimate.
 Requests changes or exceptions to the JRFL and signal operating instructions
through the G-2 or S-2 and G-6 or S-6 staff.
 Completes risk assessments and develops risk mitigation strategies.
 Leads the CEMA working group.
 Develops and rehearses battle drills and staff processes including—

Staffing the electromagnetic attack request format or other applicable
theater-specific requests.

Integrating information collection activities with the G-2 or S-2 staff.
3-16

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment








Coordinating for external maintenance and reprogramming support for
EW assets.
Initiating electromagnetic protection procedures to counter
electromagnetic interference and enemy jamming actions.
Developing standard operating procedures.
Establishing reporting procedures.

DECONFLICTING THE ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM
3-65. Frequency deconfliction is a systematic management procedure to coordinate the
use of the electromagnetic spectrum for operations, communications, and intelligence
functions (JP 3-85). Deconflicting spectrum use requires an understanding of signal
operating instructions, the JRFL, and mission requirements. The CEWO considers the
distance, location, and the purpose of equipment reliant on friendly or restricted
frequencies and recommends exceptions to signal operating instructions or the JRFL.
Signal operating instructions contain call signs, call words, frequency assignments,
signs, and countersigns for friendly forces. For more information regarding signal
operating instructions and JRFL, refer to ATP 6-02.70.
3-66. Mission requirements may drive modifications to signal operating instructions
and the JRFL. Modifications require staffing and approval through the G-2 or S-2 and
G-6 or S-6 staff. When EW activities conflict with signal operating instructions or the
JRFL, the commander decides which has priority. For signal operating instructions and
JRFL deconfliction, the CEWO considers—
 The purpose of the frequency.
 Waveform characteristics.
 Location and time of use.
3-67. Due to security concerns, frequencies employed in intelligence roles may not be
included in signal operating instructions. The CEWO maintains awareness of the
frequencies that support SIGINT activities through coordination with the G-2 or S-2
staff.

ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM RESOURCES
3-68. The G-6 or S-6 section spectrum manager uses the electromagnetic spectrum
certification process to gain the use of previously unallocated spectrum resources, which
requires completing a standard frequency action format.
3-69. Host nations have spectrum usage plans that assist in spectrum management and
frequency assignment. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager assists the CEMA section in
frequency assignment for EW activities. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager requests
frequency resources through an online database. The online database enables managers
to determine the historical spectrum supportability of like systems. Spectrum managers
use Department of Defense Form 1494 (Application for Equipment Frequency
Allocation) to request frequencies. For more information about Department of Defense

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-17

Chapter 3

Form 1494 and spectrum management operations, refer to ATP 6-02.70. See appendix
C for more information on spectrum management systems.

INTEGRATION OF ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE
AND SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE
3-70. EW and SIGINT systems have similar capabilities that are mutually beneficial.
Integrated EW and SIGINT assets present an efficient, holistic approach that reduces
duplication of effort, enables additional information collection, and provides flexibility
in employing EW and SIGINT resources. EW and SIGINT teams collaboratively use
direction-finding techniques to achieve a higher level of fidelity on the location of
emitters. Combining the capabilities of EW and SIGINT sensors and spreading them
throughout the area of operations locates targeted emitters more accurately.
3-71. Though EW and SIGINT are similar, there are important distinctions between
them. Legal considerations distinguish EW and SIGINT activities and the authorization
for each to support operations that, if not observed, can complicate and delay the
execution of electromagnetic attack effects and SIGINT operations. Commanders and
planners should collaborate closely with SIGINT elements and legal authorities to
ensure compliance with SIGINT policy when planning EW activities.

DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE AND SIGNALS
INTELLIGENCE
3-72. Commanders have the option to employ SIGINT sensors to augment
electromagnetic support activities. Electromagnetic support and SIGINT employ the
same or similar capabilities. The task and purpose are the main factors when deciding
to use SIGINT or electromagnetic support capabilities. SIGINT sensors perform
electromagnetic support activities when used to provide immediate threat information,
including threat warnings, avoidance, targeting, and jamming. When SIGINT sensors
are intercepting, identifying, and locating or localizing sources of intentional and
unintentional radiated electromagnetic energy for intelligence purposes, they are
supporting a SIGINT mission. These distinctions are identified when answering—
 Who tasks or controls the SIGINT sensors?
 What are the sensors tasked to provide?
 What is the purpose of the task driving the employment of the sensors?
3-73. Electromagnetic support sensors provide combat information to support
immediate threat recognition, targeting, and planning of future operations. Units may
also transfer select data from electromagnetic support activities to the United States
SIGINT System to produce foreign intelligence. The CEWO and the G-2 or S-2 staff
develop a standard operating procedure for information exchange.

3-18

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

SECTION IV – EXECUTION
3-74. Execution is the act of putting a plan into action by applying combat power to
accomplish the mission and adjusting operations based on changes in the situation (ADP
5-0). Commanders focus their subordinates on executing the concept of the operation by
clarifying their commander’s intent and mission orders.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE EXECUTION
3-75. CEWOs routinely synchronize electromagnetic attack tasks with the other
functional or integrating cells responsible for the information tasks. In this way, they
ensure that electromagnetic attack efforts do not cause fratricide or unacceptable
collateral damage.
3-76. During execution, the CEMA working group—
 Serves as the EW experts for the commander.
 Maintains the EW running estimate.
 Monitors EW operations and recommend adjustments.
 Recommends adjustments to the commander’s critical information
requirements based on the situation.
 Recommends adjustments to EW-related control measures and procedures.
 Maintains direct liaison with the fires cell and Department of Defense
information network operations officer to ensure integration and
deconfliction of EW operations.
 Coordinates and manages EW taskings to subordinate units or assets.
 Coordinates requests for nonorganic EW capabilities.
 Continues to assist the targeting working group in target development.
 Recommends targets for engagement by electromagnetic attack assets.
 Receives, processes, and coordinates subordinate units’ requests for EW
during operations.
 Receives and processes immediate support requests for suppression of enemy
air defenses or EW from joint or multinational forces.
 Coordinates with the airspace control section on suppression of enemy air
defenses or EW missions.
 Provides input to the overall assessment regarding effectiveness of
electromagnetic attack missions.
 Maintains, updates, and distributes the status of EW assets.
 Validates and disseminates stop jamming requests.
 Coordinates and expedites JSIR reporting with the G-2 or S-2 and G-6 or
S-6 for potential deconfliction.
 Exercises delegated electromagnetic warfare control authority for groundbased EW within the area of operations.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-19

Chapter 3

3-77. The CEWO participates in the targeting working group to identify targets and
directs employment of EW assets in support of an operation. Targeting requires
continuous involvement from the CEWO. After planning, the CEWO participates in the
targeting board and assesses effects using measures of effectiveness. During execution
the CEWO—
 Prosecutes approved EW targets.
 Evaluates the effectiveness of EW.
 Maintains situational understanding of EW activities and associated effects.
 Oversees the movement and placement of EW assets in support of operational
requirements.
 Continues to identify and assess risk.
 Receives information from EW assets and disseminates to the staff—

Detection and location of targeted and potential enemy emitters,
including enemy EW assets.

Indicators and warnings of enemy activity from EW.
 Maintains direct liaison with the fires cell, G-2 or S-2, and G-6 or S-6 staff
to ensure integration and deconfliction of EW activities.
 Coordinates and manages EW missions tasked to subordinate units and
requests for nonorganic EW support.
 Validates and disseminates stop jamming requests.
 Exercises delegated electromagnetic attack control authority.

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS DURING EXECUTION
3-78. Spectrum resources are congested due to friendly, neutral, and threat use; and
contested due to threat activities. Spectrum resource availability also shifts during an
operation. The CEWO updates any changes within the electromagnetic environment and
updates the common operational picture. During execution, EW planners continually
consider—
 The electromagnetic order of battle.
 Signal operating instructions.
 The JRFL.
 Anticipated or reported electromagnetic interference.
 Use of single system configurations or multiple system configurations in a
layered approach to accomplish objectives.

SECTION V – ASSESSMENT
3-79. Assessment is the determination of the progress toward accomplishing a task,
creating a condition, or achieving an objective (JP 3-0). Commanders and staffs
continuously assess the current situation and progress of the operation and compare it
with the concept of operations, mission, and commander’s intent. Based on their

3-20

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Planning, Preparation, Execution, and Assessment

assessment, commanders direct adjustments, ensuring that the operation remains
focused on the mission and higher commander’s intent.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE ASSESSMENT
3-80. Assessment occurs throughout planning, preparation, and execution; it includes
three major tasks:
 Continuous assessment of the enemy’s reactions and vulnerabilities.
 Continuous monitoring of the situation and progress of the operation towards
the commander’s desired end state.
 Evaluating the operation against measures of performance and measures of
effectiveness.
3-81. The CEMA working group makes assessments throughout the various phases of
an operation. They assess EW activities during the MDMP, intelligence preparation of
the battlefield, information collection synchronization, targeting, and risk management
integration.

MEASURES OF PERFORMANCE AND MEASURES OF
EFFECTIVENESS
3-82. The CEWO develops the measures of performance and measures of effectiveness
for evaluating EW activities during execution. Normally, the CEWO evaluates measures
of performance and measures of effectiveness by analyzing data collected by both active
and passive means.
3-83. Measures of effectiveness help define whether an EW capability is creating the
desired effects or conditions. Example measures of effectiveness from electromagnetic
attack include—

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

3-21

Chapter 3






Indications of disrupted or deactivated target radar assets.
Indications of increased radio traffic on the radar command and control
network.
Indications of target radar power increase.
Indications of target radar changing frequencies.

3-84. Measures of performance help evaluate whether a unit is accomplishing tasks to
standard. In the context of EW, example measures of performance include—
 Whether the electromagnetic attack asset is transmitting at the planned
power.
 Whether the electromagnetic attack asset is transmitting the required
bandwidth.
 Whether the electromagnetic attack asset is transmitting using the correct
polarization.
 Whether all assets for a given mission are synchronized.
3-85. CEWOs use caution when selecting measures of effectiveness to avoid flaws in
an analysis of the EW mission. For example, the lack of enemy electromagnetic
activity, such as communications or improvised explosive device initiation, does not
necessarily mean it was the result of the EW mission; other factors may be the cause.
A flawed measure of effectiveness might cause EW operators to conclude incorrectly
that an enemy commander is not able to direct the maneuver of subordinates because
of electromagnetic attack effects. The enemy commander may have an alternate means
of communication.
3-86. During execution, the CEMA working group participates in combat assessments
within the targeting process to determine the effectiveness of electromagnetic attack.
Combat assessment consists of three elements:
 Munitions effects assessment.
 Battle damage assessment.
 Re-attack recommendations.

3-22

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Chapter 4

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques
Electromagnetic attack, when effectively employed, enables the
commander to dominate the electromagnetic environment and
supports the scheme of maneuver during Army operations. This
chapter discusses planning and preparation considerations when
conducting electromagnetic attack. This chapter also describes
common electromagnetic attack techniques and their
characteristics, and electromagnetic attack in the targeting process.

PLANNING ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK
4-1. Commanders use electromagnetic attack to affect threat communications and
noncommunications capabilities. Electromagnetic attack may be conducted as a single
action or supplement other lethal or nonlethal attacks. Dynamics in an operational
environment require the CEWO to employ different electromagnetic attack techniques
based on mission variables. Electromagnetic attack techniques include countermeasures
and electromagnetic deception. Army operations employ offensive and defensive
electromagnetic attack such as—
 Jamming adversary radar or command and control systems.
 Using antiradiation missiles to suppress adversary air defenses.
 Using electromagnetic deception to confuse adversary surveillance and
reconnaissance systems.
 Employing self-propelled, towed, or stationary decoys.
 Using self-protection and force protection measures such as use of
expendables (flares and active decoys).
 Employing directed-energy or infrared countermeasures.
4-2. Planning electromagnetic attack actions must be based on mission analysis and a
firm understanding of the commander’s intent. Once the mission and scheme of
operations (maneuver, fires, effects, and information advantage) is understood, the
CEMA section, in conjunction with the staff, carefully considers—
 Interference with friendly communications.
 Intelligence gain or loss.
 Spectrum use by neutral actors.
 The persistence of effects.
 Electromagnetic signatures.
 Personnel and equipment capabilities and limitations.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-1

Chapter 4






Desired offensive or defensive effects to support and accomplish mission
objectives.
Delivery method for effects—airborne, ground, or a combination of both.
Electromagnetic order of battle to understand and validate electromagnetic
attack targets.
Priority of enemy units, systems, functions.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK EFFECTS
4-3. Electromagnetic attack denies the threat the ability to use the electromagnetic
spectrum, or spectrum-dependent equipment. An electromagnetic attack may also affect
personnel, decision making, or potential courses of action. Electromagnetic attack
effects include denying, destroying, degrading, deceiving, delaying, diverting,
neutralizing, or suppressing threat spectrum-dependent capabilities. These effects are
mutually exclusive, and these terms are common when describing desired effects. For
more information on effects, refer to JP 3-60.
4-4. The different electromagnetic attack systems have varying capabilities. EW
personnel planning and employing the systems consider each of the system-specific
parameters, the environment, and mission requirements. Each system has specific
capabilities and may require ingenuity during planning to ensure mission success.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK CONSIDERATIONS
4-5. Electromagnetic attack depends on electromagnetic support and SIGINT to
provide targeting information and battle damage assessment. Throughout the MDMP
and the targeting process, the CEMA section coordinates and deconflicts spectrum
requirements with the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager. Refer to JP 3-85 for more
information about electromagnetic attack and defensive electromagnetic attack
planning.
4-6. The CEMA working group plans and rehearses spectrum deconfliction
procedures. When electromagnetic attack conflicts with information collection efforts,
the commander either dictates priorities or the G-3 or S-3 decides based on commander’s
guidance.
4-7. Threat intelligence collection activities can influence electromagnetic attack
planning. A well-equipped peer threat can detect electromagnetic attack activities by
employing electromagnetic support techniques to gain intelligence on U.S. force
locations and intentions. Analysis of the enemy electromagnetic order of battle aids the
CEWO in protecting electromagnetic attack assets. The CEWO protects electromagnetic
attack assets through electromagnetic protection and risk mitigation techniques to
counter the threat electromagnetic support and electromagnetic attack efforts. For more
information about electromagnetic protection, see chapter 5.

4-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

Electromagnetic Warfare Persistence
4-8. Aside from antiradiation missiles, the effects of jamming are less persistent than
effects achieved by lethal means. Jamming effects persist as long as the jammer is
emitting within range to affect the targeted receiver or receivers. These effects last a
matter of seconds or minutes, which makes the timing of such missions critical. Timing
is essential when units use jamming in support of aviation or ground platforms. For
example, in a mission that supports the suppression of enemy air defenses, the time on
target and duration of the jamming must account for the speed of attack of the aviation
platform. They must also account for the possible reaction time of threat air defenses.
Because jamming may cause the threat to take unexpected actions or use other means of
communication to avoid the intended effect, the CEWO uses electromagnetic support
techniques to sense and validate the persistence of known threat transmissions.

Electromagnetic Pulse
4-9. An electromagnetic pulse is a strong burst of electromagnetic radiation caused by
a nuclear explosion, energy weapon, or by natural phenomenon, that may couple with
electrical or electromagnetic systems to produce damaging current and voltage surges
(JP 3-85). An electromagnetic pulse creates a permanent effect and destroys equipment,
rendering it useless until the threat repairs or reconstitutes the capability. Units at
echelons theater army and below seeking to destroy a target using an electromagnetic
pulse rely on strategic-level decisions and capabilities to achieve this effect.

Countermeasures
4-10. Countermeasures are that form of military science that, by the employment of
devices and/or techniques, has as its objective the impairment of the operational
effectiveness of enemy activity (JP 3-85). The Army uses countermeasure techniques to
mitigate threat EW sensing and attack activities. Countermeasures can be active or
passive and used preemptively or reactively. Countermeasure devices and techniques
include flares, chaff, radar jammers, CREW systems, and decoys. Chaff is radar
confusion reflectors, consisting of thin, narrow metallic strips of various lengths and
frequency responses, which are used to reflect echoes for confusion (JP 3-85).

Electromagnetic Deception
4-11. Deception techniques include misleading transmissions that present false
indications of friendly force battle rhythms. Control and coordination are necessary to
avoid confusing friendly activities with deception missions. When planning
electromagnetic deception, EW planners consider activities that support the current
friendly operation, as well as those that will support the deception mission, integration,
and deconfliction. EW supports both military deception and tactical deception, using
electromagnetic deception and scaling appropriately for the desired effect.
Electromagnetic deception uses deliberate radiation, reradiation, alteration, suppression,
absorption, denial, enhancement, or reflection of electromagnetic energy in a manner
intended to convey misleading information to a threat or to threat spectrum-dependent
weapons, thereby degrading or neutralizing the threat’s combat capability.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-3

Chapter 4

Electromagnetic deception can increase or decrease ambiguity, affecting the situational
understanding of the threat decision maker. This can indicate to a threat commander the
certainty of a course of action or create sufficient confusion to disrupt proper decisionmaking.
4-12. EW supports information advantage activities and deception plans using
electromagnetic deception techniques. The G-3 or S-3 staff plans and supervises
deception missions. The information advantage staff develops deception plans.
Integration of electromagnetic deception with other information advantage activities is
necessary when conducting deception missions. The CEWO is responsible for the EW
portion of the deception plan.
4-13. Time is a critical factor in deception planning. A deception plan intended to
deceive the adversary for two or three days usually includes well-coordinated
electromagnetic deception that uses as many friendly transmitters as reasonable.
Regardless of the duration, the threat’s ability to detect emitters is essential to the
success of electromagnetic deception. Deceptive emissions require—
 A frequency that is compatible with threat receivers.
 Signals strong enough to reach threat sensors.
 Modulation techniques employed and detected by threat equipment.
 Planning and deconfliction for electromagnetic deception broadcast
locations.
4-14. Each piece of spectrum-dependent equipment exhibits an electromagnetic
signature. Electromagnetic deception presents realistic decoy signatures to threat
sensors, potentially causing the threat to draw incorrect conclusions about friendly
locations and activities. The three types of deception are—
 Simulative electromagnetic deception.
 Manipulative electromagnetic deception.
 Imitative electromagnetic deception.
Simulative Electromagnetic Deception
4-15. Simulative electromagnetic deception attempts to represent friendly notional or
actual capabilities to mislead threat forces. Simulative electromagnetic techniques
require extensive command and staff collaboration to present a believable deception
plan. What the threat detects electronically should be consistent with other information
sources. Simulative electromagnetic deception transmissions require close attention.
Electromagnetic deception effects are often of short duration.
4-16. Simulative electromagnetic deception includes the use of systems that give off
emissions indicative of a particular organization. Simulative electromagnetic deception
also includes using emitters to imply a type or change of activity by a unit, for example,
placing surveillance radars in a typical defensive array when the intent is to attack.

4-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

Manipulative Electromagnetic Deception
4-17. Manipulative
electromagnetic
deception
uses
communication
or
noncommunication signals to convey indicators that mislead the enemy. For example,
to indicate that a unit will attack when it is actually going to withdraw, the unit might
transmit false plans and requests for ammunition. Units use manipulative
electromagnetic deception to mislead the enemy to misdirect their electromagnetic
attack and electromagnetic support assets, while interfering less with friendly
communications. Manipulative electromagnetic deception seeks to eliminate, reveal, or
convey misleading indicators of friendly intentions. Success in manipulative
electromagnetic deception and simulative electromagnetic deception depends on
understanding how friendly transmitters appear to the threat.
Imitative Electromagnetic Deception
4-18. Imitative deception mimics threat emissions with the intent to mislead them.
Imitative electromagnetic deception, if recognized by the enemy, can compromise
friendly SIGINT efforts. Imitative deception normally requires approval from higherechelon commands.
4-19. An example of imitative electromagnetic deception includes entering the
adversary’s communication nets by using their call signs and radio procedures and
giving threat commanders instructions to initiate actions that are advantageous to
friendly forces. Targets for imitative electromagnetic deception include any threat
receiver and range from cryptographic systems to plain-language tactical nets. Imitative
electromagnetic deception can cause a unit to be in the wrong place, to place ordnance
on the wrong target, or to delay attack plans. Imitative deception presents false
information to the threat and affects decision making. Imitative electromagnetic
deception requires equipment capable of convincingly duplicating the emissions of
enemy equipment to be effective.

PREPARING ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK
4-20. In preparation for electromagnetic attack, the CEWO gathers target information
from electromagnetic support sensors and the electromagnetic order of battle. The
information includes the location of the targeted asset, its technical characteristics, and
the frequencies in use. Using location, characteristics, and frequency, the CEWO
determines which assets are best to conduct an electromagnetic attack. The CEWO then
calculates the power required to jam the targeted receiver. See appendix B for the
formulas for calculating required jamming power. The CEWO gives guidance to
subordinate units about electromagnetic attack. The guidance includes information that
allows the subordinate unit to prepare for the electromagnetic attack. Electromagnetic
attack guidance includes—
 Target identification.
 Target location.
 Special coordination requirements and procedures.
 Jamming technique.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-5

Chapter 4





Jamming duration.
Desired effect.
Battle damage assessment method of delivery and prescribed format.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK REQUESTS
4-21. Unit standard operating procedures establish guidelines for drafting, processing
and submitting ground and airborne electromagnetic attack requests. Units also review
joint tactical air strike requests (JTAR), the electromagnetic attack request format,
nonlethal effects requests, and other theater-specific formats, and incorporate them as
necessary. Refer to ATP 3-09.32 more information about the JTAR. See appendix D for
more information about the electromagnetic attack request format.
4-22. The objective of electromagnetic attack is to disrupt or degrade the threat’s ability
to receive electromagnetic signals radiating from their transmitters, or process signals
from other sources, such as friendly transmissions, with confidence. CEWOs integrate
electromagnetic attack into the tactical plan by coordinating with the targeting board and
the CEMA working group. The target list is an output from the targeting board and
specifies the targets and times of attack, regardless of the method used. When preparing
for electromagnetic attack, the CEWO considers—
 The commander’s intent.
 The rules of engagement.
 The location and identity of the targeted receiver and associated transmitter.
 The characteristics of the targeted receiver and associated transmitter.
 The target engagement calculations.
 The associated risk when targeting with electromagnetic attack.
4-23. The CEWO coordinates with the staff to plan electromagnetic attack. The G-2 or
S-2 staff provides the electromagnetic order of battle to aid in the development of targets.
The CEWO maintains the electromagnetic order of battle for future targeting efforts.
The electromagnetic order of battle includes—
 Threat’s unit or organization.
 Frequencies in use.
 Call signs.
 Location.
 Power of transmitters.
 Bandwidth.
 Equipment nomenclature.
 Modulation type.
 Multiplexing capability.
 Pulse duration.
 Pulse repetition frequency.
 Antenna type.
 Antenna height.
4-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques




Antenna orientation.
Antenna gain.

4-24. The CEWO determines the minimum power required to attack the target
receivers. Excessive power makes it easier for the threat to locate and attack the friendly
electromagnetic attack asset. Distances between the threat transmitter and receiver and
the friendly electromagnetic attack asset are critical considerations for electromagnetic
attack asset placement.
4-25. Terrain is a factor because line of sight is necessary between the electromagnetic
attack asset and the location of the targeted receiver. The threat may use terrain to mask
transmitted signals from friendly detection and attack. Other terrain considerations
include—
 Urban structures.
 Bodies of water.
 Soil composition.
 Vegetation density.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK PLATFORM SELECTION
4-26. The selection of electromagnetic attack platforms is a significant factor when
preparing to conduct electromagnetic attack. Electromagnetic attack platform selection
considerations include—
 Concealment characteristics.
 Power output capability.
 Availability of physical protection.
 Time available for the mission.
 Route clearance and escort requirements to conduct friendly maneuver.
 Augmented security coordination.
 Airspace coordination for airborne EW assets.

EXECUTING ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK
4-27. The CEWO has multiple options to choose from when executing electromagnetic
attack. The CEWO prosecutes electromagnetic attack from airborne and ground-based
platforms and monitors the electromagnetic attack activities during the mission. Mobile
platforms consist of vehicular and dismounted configurations. Units conduct
electromagnetic attack using the chosen jamming techniques. Electromagnetic support
and SIGINT capabilities evaluate effectiveness of the jamming efforts to the CEWO.

CLOSE AIR SUPPORT
4-28. Close air support delivers electromagnetic attack using a variety of aerial
platforms. There are two types of close air support requests—preplanned and immediate.
The CEWO reviews the air tasking order when resourcing electromagnetic attack

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-7

Chapter 4

requirements. When close air support is available, the CEWO submits a request to use
close air support for the electromagnetic attack mission.
4-29. The air support operations center provides the air tasking order, which has detailed
information on aircraft, crews, missions, munitions, and targets. Planners submit
preplanned close air support requests to support operations. The air tasking order
typically covers a 24-hour duty cycle. The joint air operations command and control
center establishes cut-off times to receive preplanned air support requests for inclusion
in the air tasking order. Immediate air support requests arise from situations that develop
outside the planning horizon of the joint air tasking cycle. It is important to understand
that air assets available to satisfy immediate air support requests already exist in the
published air tasking order. For more information about close air support and the air
tasking order, refer to JP 3-09.3.

AIRBORNE ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK
4-30. Airborne electromagnetic attack delivers jamming from rotary-wing, fixed-wing,
or unmanned aircraft systems. Although some of these platforms are organic to the
Army, much of the airborne electromagnetic attack capability resides in other Services.
Requesting airborne electromagnetic attack often requires coordination with joint
forces. Effective airborne electromagnetic attack requires integrating procedures and
communications between the supported unit and the airborne electromagnetic attack
asset owner.

Communication With the Joint Terminal Attack Controller
4-31. Communication between the aircrew, CEWO, and the joint terminal attack
controller throughout the mission is beneficial for maintaining situational understanding
and for retasking an asset. Best practices include active communication between the
CEWO and the aircraft that is delivering the attack.
4-32. When the CEWO cannot communicate with the aircrew or the joint terminal
attack controller, the supporting aircraft continues with the airborne electromagnetic
attack mission specified in the electromagnetic attack request format. A technique is to
note in the electromagnetic attack request format regarding what to do in the event of a
communication failure.

Canceling and Retasking Airborne Electromagnetic Attack
4-33. Changes within an operational environment and electromagnetic attack missions
may make it necessary to reprioritize assets. Air platforms are in demand for other
purposes such as surveillance, intelligence missions, or communications. The CEWO
can request dynamic retasking of airborne electromagnetic attack assets and requests
retasking with the joint terminal attack controller and the joint air operations center.
Airborne Electromagnetic Attack Cancellations at the Battalion and Brigade
4-34. Sometimes it is necessary to cancel airborne electromagnetic attack missions.
CEWOs communicate cancellations to the asset owner and requestor points of contact.
4-8

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

Reporting cancellations ensures the most efficient use of electromagnetic attack assets
and availability for other missions.
Advanced Cancellation of a Preplanned Mission
4-35. Cancellation of an airborne electromagnetic attack mission more than six hours
before a scheduled flight is considered a routine cancellation. The requestor includes the
reason for the cancellation. The CEWO immediately communicates a cancellation of a
mission to release the airborne electromagnetic attack asset for other missions. The
CEWO also notifies the fire support officer and the air liaison officer. Cancellations
made during operations include direct voice communications whenever possible to
ensure someone is available and ready to process the cancellation.
Short-Notice Cancellation of a Preplanned Mission
4-36. Short-notice airborne electromagnetic attack cancellations are cancellations that
occur less than six hours before a preplanned mission. Short-notice cancellations require
immediate action to avoid mission launches and the unnecessary employment of an
asset. The CEWO informs the designated point of contact that a cancellation is coming
by the most expeditious means available. Following the initial notification, the CEWO
sends the official cancellation JTAR to the appropriate point of contact as soon as
possible. Since the cancellation may require communications that bypass the normal
chain of command, CEWOs include the process in the unit standard operating
procedures and battle drills.
Immediate Cancellation of Preplanned Mission
4-37. CEWOs use immediate cancellation techniques to cancel missions within one
hour of the expected execution time. CEWOs use the fastest communication means
possible, such as Internet relay chat or voice communications, to distribute the necessary
cancellation information. Immediately following an immediate cancellation, CEWOs
contact the prescribed point of contact and provide an official cancellation using the
points of contact on the JTAR and electromagnetic attack request format to ensure units
receive information promptly. Effective units include this process in the unit standard
operating procedures and battle drills.
Dynamic Retasking
4-38. The staff makes every effort to provide immediate electromagnetic attack in
response to an urgent request, including the allocation of available airborne
electromagnetic attack assets. The retasking of airborne electromagnetic attack assets
fulfills requests for on-demand requirements.
4-39. The process for retasking airborne electromagnetic attack platforms varies
depending on joint and Army command and control, task organization, force disposition,
and unit boundaries. The requesting unit submits a request to their supporting EW
representative.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-9

Chapter 4

4-40. If the requesting unit previously submitted a JTAR for electromagnetic attack
support, the CEWO modifies the existing JTAR with a numbered change. Some units
make the change using red for easier identification. If the requesting unit has not
submitted a JTAR for the mission, the CEWO creates a new JTAR. The CEWO provides
status updates to the requesting unit. Effective units address the processes for
maintaining updated JTARs in their standard operating procedures and battle drills.
4-41. Due to the dynamic nature of an urgent requirement, there is no way to calculate
the amount of time needed for coordinating the airborne electromagnetic attack. The
CEWO or joint terminal attack controller notifies the appropriate EW representative and
air support operations center when it is apparent that the duration of electromagnetic
attack will exceed the initially anticipated time. The air support operations center
notifies the airborne electromagnetic attack asset and coordinates any additional fuel
requirements or determines the need to re-task another airborne electromagnetic attack
asset. The air support operations center then informs the CEWO and joint terminal attack
controller of what support to expect. The joint terminal attack controller or CEWO
contacts the air support operations center to release airborne electromagnetic attack
assets upon mission completion or cancellation.

ELECTROMAGNETIC JAMMING TECHNIQUES
4-42. CEWOs direct the use of jamming techniques to disrupt the threat’s ability to
effectively receive or process electromagnetic signals by overcoming the threat receiver
with higher-power transmissions. Successful jamming of receivers requires an
understanding of available jamming techniques.

Electromagnetic Jamming
4-43. Electromagnetic jamming is the deliberate radiation, reradiation, or reflection of
electromagnetic energy for the purpose of preventing or reducing an enemy’s effective
use of the electromagnetic spectrum, with the intent of degrading or neutralizing the
enemy’s combat capability (JP 3-85). CEWOs integrate electromagnetic attack
techniques, including electromagnetic jamming, into operation orders and exercise
technical control over EW platoons executing electromagnetic jamming.
4-44. The primary effects of jamming persist when the jammer is within range of the
target and emitting. Effects of jamming may be evident in the actions of the adversary
during or following the electromagnetic attack mission. Jamming techniques include—
 Standoff jamming.
 Escort jamming.
 Spot jamming.
 Barrage jamming.
 Sweep jamming.
 Follower jamming.

4-10

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

Standoff Jamming
4-45. Standoff jamming disrupts or degrades threat command and control systems and
sensors that operate in the electromagnetic spectrum. A standoff jamming mission
projects from a stationary and protected location within a friendly area of operations.
Standoff jamming—
 Affords maximum protection to EW professionals and the systems they
deploy from threat actions.
 Generally requires high power and large antennas to reach deep into the threat
area of operations.
 Requires precise intelligence on threat frequencies and receiver locations to
maximize jamming effects.
 Creates windows of opportunity for Army and joint forces to conduct
maneuver.
Escort Jamming
4-46. Escort jamming uses a jamming platform that accompanies maneuver forces.
Escort jamming is defensive in nature and protects maneuver forces from threat weapons
systems that use RF triggers. Successful escort jamming requires precise intelligence
regarding threat frequency use. Escort jamming usually does not require the same level
of power or large antennas as standoff jamming. Escort jammers use similar vehicle
configurations to maneuver vehicles to screen them from visual identification.
Spot Jamming
4-47. The CEWO can jam a specific frequency using a technique referred to as spot
jamming. Spot jamming is the least intrusive form of electromagnetic attack, as it does
not jam untargeted frequencies. The CEWO requires specific threat system
characteristics to plan and execute spot jamming successfully.
Barrage Jamming
4-48. Some electromagnetic attack assets can jam more than one frequency at a time.
For example, if the threat incorporates frequency hopping, which uses two or more
frequencies at different times during a single transmission, barrage or sweep jamming
techniques are considered. Barrage jamming is the jamming of all frequencies within a
specified portion of the spectrum at the same time. Barrage jamming techniques apply
less power to each jammed frequency because the power extends across the targeted
frequency range. Barrage jamming generally requires the EW asset to be closer to the
target receivers than sweep or spot jamming techniques. Figure 4-1 on page 4-12
illustrates spot and barrage jamming.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-11

Chapter 4

Figure 4-1. Spot and barrage jamming
Sweep Jamming
4-49. The CEWO employs sweep jamming when the electromagnetic order of battle
provides a frequency range but not the specific frequency in use. Sweep jamming is the
jamming of a selected portion of the electromagnetic spectrum by sweeping the known
frequency range at a predetermined rate. Sweep and spot jamming use a higher level of
transmitting power than barrage jamming.

4-12

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

Follower Jamming
4-50. Follower jamming is a form of electromagnetic attack to target receivers
automatically when the system detects a threat transmission. Follower jamming is
passive until a targeted transmitter emits a signal. Follower jamming uses spot, barrage,
and sweep jamming techniques. EW professionals configure the jammer to attack a
specific frequency or range of frequencies. The G-2 or S-2 compiles the electromagnetic
order of battle and determines the frequencies employed by the threat. The CEWO
ensures the proper equipment configuration to jam the prescribed frequencies. Follower
jamming also jams threat frequency hopping receivers. Because the asset is not always
transmitting, the follower jamming technique allows a jammer to maximize its resources
against a target while minimizing the threat’s ability to sense and locate the jammer.

Electromagnetic Intrusion
4-51. Electromagnetic intrusion is the intentional insertion of electromagnetic energy
into transmission paths in any manner, with the objective of deceiving operators or of
causing confusion (JP 3-85). The CEWO employs electromagnetic intrusion based on
the electromagnetic order of battle identifying a specific type of emitter.
Electromagnetic intrusion techniques are discrete and tailored to specific target systems,
as opposed to more broad techniques such as spot, sweep, or barrage jamming. An
example of electromagnetic intrusion would be radio transmissions simulating air traffic
control communications and giving false instructions to a pilot.

DEFENSIVE ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK
4-52. Defensive electromagnetic attack degrades the threat’s ability to employ weapons
that use RF-activated triggers. Defensive electromagnetic attack protects friendly
personnel and equipment. CREW systems implement this defensive electromagnetic
attack.
4-53. Defensive electromagnetic attack uses the electromagnetic spectrum to protect
personnel, facilities, capabilities, and equipment. Examples include self-protection and
other protection measures such as the use of expendables (flares and active decoys),
jammers, towed decoys, directed-energy infrared countermeasures, and CREW systems.
4-54. CREW systems conduct defensive electromagnetic attack to jam threat radio
frequencies to prevent radio-controlled improvised explosive devices from receiving a
triggering signal, thus stopping the device from detonating. Units program CREW
systems with threat-specific loadsets based on various sources of intelligence, including
the technical exploitation of recovered radio-controlled improvised explosive devices.
The loadset configures the operational frequency range, change rate, and other attributes
of the CREW system. The Army employs mounted, dismounted, and fixed CREW
systems as countermeasures to radio-controlled improvised explosive devices.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-13

Chapter 4

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK TECHNIQUES IN LARGE-SCALE COMBAT
OPERATIONS
4-55. Peer threats rely on the electromagnetic spectrum for command and control,
sensing and targeting, and EW. Units require electromagnetic attack capabilities during
large-scale combat operations to counter threat communications and
noncommunications emitters.
4-56. When jamming threat communications, the CEWO aligns EW capabilities with
targets. The electromagnetic attack does not jam every possible threat communication.
Figure 4-2 is an example of electromagnetic attack disrupting communications
between an enemy command post and an enemy tank company. The close proximity
and transmit power of the radios of the enemy tanks in a company formation allows
them to maintain uninterrupted communication. The enemy command post
transmissions to the company have a greater distance to travel and weaker signal at the
receiving antenna, leaving the communications vulnerable to jamming. In this
illustration, the enemy company can still effectively communicate within the company
formation, but not with the command post.

Figure 4-2. Jamming to disrupt enemy command post-to-company
communications
4-57. Enemies employ multiple sensors and noncommunications emitters, such as
radars, to detect and locate friendly forces during large-scale combat operations. The
CEWO uses EW activities, such as electromagnetic deception, to disrupt the enemy’s
ability to target friendly forces. The CEWO also disrupts enemy SIGINT and

4-14

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

electromagnetic support sensors to prevent detection, location, and exploitation of
friendly transmitters.
4-58. A common misperception with electromagnetic attack is that jammers affect
every emitter on the battlefield. Factors that limit jamming effectiveness include antenna
type and power. EW personnel require an understanding of the characteristics of links
between nodes such as frequencies in use, transmission power levels, modulation type,
and available bandwidth. The electromagnetic order of battle includes these
characteristics and ties them to a node. The G-2 or S-2 provides the electromagnetic
order of battle to EW planners to support targeting. EW planners use the electromagnetic
order of battle to assess which targets to engage with electromagnetic attack at a time
and place that supports the commander’s intent and scheme of maneuver. Planners then
determine how to engage targets based on threat system characteristics and the
electromagnetic attack capabilities of available friendly assets.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK IN THE TARGETING
PROCESS
4-59. The modern battlefield presents more targets than available resources can acquire
and attack. The commander determines which targets are the most important to the
enemy and decides which targets to acquire and attack. As the operation continues, the
staff assesses the results.
4-60. Targeting provides an effective method to match friendly force capabilities
against targets. Commander’s intent plays a critical role in the targeting process. The
targeting working group strives to understand the commander’s intent and implement
actions to achieve the intended effects on the targets. The CEWO integrates
electromagnetic attack into targeting to achieve desired effects in support of Army
operations. The CEWO considers the functions of decide, detect, deliver and assess for
targeting.

DECIDE
4-61. The decide function begins the targeting cycle by establishing the focus and
priorities for targeting and information collection. The decide function for EW uses
threat information from the CEMA section and G-2 or S-2, including threat tactics,
techniques, and procedures.
4-62. The CEWO plans the integration of EW into standard targeting products identified
by the fires cell. The planning products include—
 High-payoff target list.
 Target selection standards.
 Attack guidance matrix.
 Target list worksheet.
 Annex C, Appendix 12 of the operation order.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-15

Chapter 4

DETECT
4-63. The targeting working group identifies high-payoff targets. The G-3 or S-3 tasks
assets to detect the targets. The collection manager pairs assets to targets based on the
collection plan. The CEWO coordinates with the collection manager to synchronize
electromagnetic support and SIGINT assets to detect high-payoff targets.
Electromagnetic support and SIGINT assets provide data that includes the location of
transmitters and receivers, transmitter signal strength, and frequencies used by the
targeted receiver to deliver lethal or nonlethal fires against the target.

DELIVER
4-64. Once friendly force capabilities identify, locate, and track the high-payoff targets,
the next step in the process is to deliver fires against those targets. EW assets deliver
electromagnetic attack and may use electromagnetic support or SIGINT resources to
determine the effectiveness of the electromagnetic attack. Electromagnetic support and
SIGINT assets also serve as observers when the commander directs lethal fires against
enemy transmitters. Close coordination between those conducting SIGINT and
electromagnetic attack is critical during the engagement. This coordination assists the
CEWO in avoiding unintentional interruption of an ongoing SIGINT effort. The CEWO
continually coordinates with adjacent unit CEWOs to mitigate unintended effects on
friendly units.

ASSESSMENT
4-65. The targeting working group synchronizes EW with other effects. The CEWO
coordinates and synchronizes joint and multinational airborne and ground-based EW
capabilities. The CEWO also manages the organic EW capabilities within the main
command post. Figure 4-3 on page 4-17 illustrates EW in the targeting process.

4-16

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Attack Techniques

Figure 4-3. Electromagnetic warfare in the targeting process

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

4-17

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 5

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques
The greatest threat to command and control communications at the
tactical level is the enemy’s use of electromagnetic warfare assets
to geolocate and target friendly communications. This chapter
discusses electromagnetic protection and some techniques used to
overcome electromagnetic interference and jamming. Successful
electromagnetic protection requires planning and execution by all
members of the unit.

PLANNING ELECTROMAGNETIC PROTECTION
5-1. Electromagnetic protection is a command responsibility. Commanders ensure that
all Soldiers in their units train to apply electromagnetic protection techniques.
Commanders rely on the staff to mitigate electromagnetic vulnerabilities. The staff
continuously measures the effectiveness of the applied electromagnetic protection
techniques. Commanders’ electromagnetic protection responsibilities include—
 Reading after action reviews and reports about threat jamming or deception
efforts and assessing the effectiveness of electromagnetic protection.
 Ensuring the staff reports and analyzes electromagnetic interference,
deception, or jamming.
 Analyzing the impact of threat efforts to affect friendly communications.
 Ensuring the unit incorporates appropriate electromagnetic protection
techniques such as—

Changing network call signs and frequencies in accordance with signal
operating instructions.

Using approved communications security devices.

Loading and using prescribed encryption keys.

Using planned authentication procedures.

Employing EMCON.
5-2. Threats invest heavily in communications jammers; positioning, navigation, and
timing jammers; and offensive cyberspace capabilities to challenge friendly use of the
electromagnetic spectrum. Establishing an electromagnetic protection program helps
mitigate threat efforts to diminish friendly survivability.
5-3. Electromagnetic protection uses techniques such as limiting transmissions and
using natural or manmade objects to mask radiated energy from traveling to undesired
destinations. Electromagnetic protection is essential to prevent the threat from learning
friendly behaviors and intentions in the electromagnetic spectrum.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

5-1

Chapter 5

5-4. The CEWO considers friendly communications asset characteristics, their
priorities for protection, and their purpose of employment when planning
electromagnetic protection. Additionally, the CEWO considers threat EW and SIGINT
capabilities and their use against friendly systems. The G-6 or S-6 is the primary subject
matter expert for the characteristics of friendly communications resources, while the G2 or S-2 provides the electromagnetic order of battle. The resulting electromagnetic
protection plan must balance the unit’s need to communicate and operate with the level
of protection needed based on the threat assessment.

STAFF ELECTROMAGNETIC PROTECTION RESPONSIBILITIES
5-5. The staff implements the electromagnetic protection plan for the commander.
Staff responsibilities are—
 Planning, coordinating, and supporting the execution of electromagnetic
protection activities (CEMA working group).
 Advising the commander of threat spectrum-dependent capabilities (G-2 or
S-2).
 Supervising the CEMA section, including electromagnetic protection
scenarios in command post exercises and field training exercises, and
evaluating employment of electromagnetic protection techniques
(G-3 or S-3).
 Working with the CEWO to prepare and conduct the unit electromagnetic
protection training program.
 Ensuring that primary, alternate, contingency, and emergency means of
communications are available to support command and control (G-6 or S-6).
 Distributing communications security materials (G-6 or S-6).
 Performing friendly frequency management and deconfliction and issuing
signal operating instructions. (G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager).
 Reviewing the JRFL and updating the list of taboo, protected, and guarded
frequencies (G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager).
Note. The primary, alternate, contingency, and emergency communication plan
complements electromagnetic protection, as it provides redundant means of
communication and designates the order in which an element will move through
available communications methods until contact with the desired recipient is
established.
5-6. Preventive electromagnetic protection techniques include all measures taken to
avoid threat detection and threat electromagnetic attack. Electromagnetic protection
seeks to mitigate threat information collection and intelligence gathering efforts.
Electromagnetic communications equipment has built-in features used to mitigate threat
electromagnetic attack, electromagnetic support, and SIGINT actions. Electromagnetic
protection plans include the use of built-in features and user tactics, techniques, and
procedures for countermeasures against threat actions.
5-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

5-7. To protect friendly combat capabilities, units—
 Regularly brief personnel on threat EW capabilities.
 Safeguard spectrum-dependent capabilities during exercises, workups, and
pre-deployment training.
 Coordinate and deconflict spectrum usage.
 Conduct routine home station training on electromagnetic protection
measures.
 Take appropriate actions to minimize the vulnerability of friendly receivers
to threat jamming, such as reduced power, brevity of transmissions, and
directional antennas.

ELECTROMAGNETIC PROTECTION CONSIDERATIONS
5-8. Electromagnetic protection is only effective when everyone in an organization
understands its importance and can readily identify opportunities to implement
protection activities. A solid understanding of the mission greatly aids in the
establishment of the electromagnetic protection plan to support mission objectives.
Electromagnetic protection includes system technical capabilities, such as frequency
hopping, shielding of electronics, spectrum management, and EMCON procedures. In
developing an effective electromagnetic protection plan, the CEWO and the CEMA
working group should consider—
 Vulnerability analysis and assessment of friendly communications assets.
 Electromagnetic protection monitoring techniques and feedback procedures.
 Electromagnetic protection effects on friendly capabilities.

Vulnerability Analysis and Assessment
5-9. Vulnerability analysis and assessment form the basis for effective electromagnetic
protection plans. EW personnel use electromagnetic support capabilities to survey and
characterize the unit’s electromagnetic signature. Survey results help the commander
and staff visualize and understand the information the unit’s electromagnetic signature
might reveal to the threat. Based on the electromagnetic survey, the commander and
staff determine appropriate measures to minimize electromagnetic signatures. The G-6
or S-6 is the primary subject matter expert on the characteristics of friendly
communications systems, while the G-2 or S-2 provides information on the threat’s
electromagnetic order of battle and weapon systems.
5-10. The National Security Agency monitors communications security and provides
security posture feedback to units. Its programs focus on telecommunications systems
using wire and electromagnetic communications. Their programs can support and
remediate the command’s communications security procedures.
5-11. A red team provides an independent capability to explore alternatives in plans and
operations in the context of an operational environment and from the threat’s
perspective. A red team aids in identifying friendly and enemy vulnerabilities and
opportunities, assists in identifying areas for assessment, and provides critical reviews
and analysis of plans to identify potential weaknesses and vulnerabilities. The red team,
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

5-3

Chapter 5

in conjunction with the CEWO and the G-2 or S-2 staff, increases understanding of the
operational environment and determines what intelligence the adversary can gain.

Signature Mitigation
5-12. Armed with a complete picture of friendly electromagnetic signature and threat
capabilities, the commander and staff determine electromagnetic hardening measures,
electromagnetic masking techniques, spectrum management procedures, and EMCON
procedures to minimize the unit’s electromagnetic signature.
5-13. During planning, preparation, execution, and assessment, the CEWO reviews the
unit’s electromagnetic protection techniques and procedures to determine weaknesses
and develops improvement plans. The command should conduct assessments and
vulnerability analyses periodically to verify the effectiveness of mitigation techniques.
Units should consistently practice electromagnetic protection during all training,
exercises, and deployments.

Electromagnetic Protection Effects on Friendly Capabilities
5-14. The CEWO and the G-6 or S-6 present the risk assessment to the commander
during the MDMP. The commander decides what level of risk is acceptable. For
electromagnetic protection planning, the CEWO and G-6 or S-6 consider—
 Spectrum management.
 Electromagnetic hardening.
 Electromagnetic masking.
 EMCON.
 Electromagnetic compatibility.
 Terrain masking.
 Wartime reserve modes.

SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS
5-15. Spectrum Management Operations are the interrelated functions of spectrum
management, frequency assignment, host-nation coordination, and policy that together
enable the planning, management, and execution of operations within the
electromagnetic operational environment during all phases of military operations (FM
6-02). Spectrum management affects a unit’s ability to conduct electromagnetic
protection. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager prepares and maintains a list of friendly
frequencies and coordinates with the G-2 or S-2 who maintains the list of threat
frequencies in use. Knowing the purpose of spectrum resources and their characteristics
allows the spectrum manager to assist the CEWO when preparing the electromagnetic
protection portion of an operation or mission.
5-16. Spectrum management also involves knowing the types and quantity of friendly
emitters in the area of operations. Using frequencies employed by other friendly forces
in the same area of operations may cause unintended interference, or frequency
fratricide.
5-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

5-17. Units choose the optimal frequency to communicate based on mission
requirements. For example, use of high frequency (HF) is desirable when
communicating over land for thousands of miles. VHF, in contrast to HF, is usually
ineffective at distances over 30 kilometers. The spectrum manager analyzes RF
characteristics using modeling software that calculates a transmitter’s intended and
unintended effects on a receiver and the distance the radio wave travels. The database
includes frequencies used for command and control and electromagnetic attack.

ELECTROMAGNETIC HARDENING
5-18. Electromagnetic hardening is action taken to protect personnel, facilities, and/or
equipment by blanking, filtering, attenuating, grounding, bonding, and/or shielding
against undesirable effects of electromagnetic energy (JP 3-85). The CEWO and G-6 or
S-6 mutually develop standard operating procedures and inspect the configuration of
unit equipment such as the proper grounding of communications assemblages,
serviceability of cable shielding, and adequate cable connectivity. These actions protect
friendly communications and noncommunications resources from threat identification,
lethal and nonlethal attack, and exploitation.

ELECTROMAGNETIC MASKING
5-19. Electromagnetic masking is the controlled radiation of electromagnetic energy on
friendly frequencies in a manner to protect the emissions of friendly communications
and electronic systems against enemy electromagnetic support measures/signals
intelligence without significantly degrading the operation of friendly systems (JP 3-85).
Electromagnetic masking disguises, distorts, or manipulates friendly electromagnetic
radiation to conceal critical information or present false perceptions to threat
commanders. Electromagnetic masking is an essential component of military deception,
operations security, and signals security.

ELECTROMAGNETIC COMPATIBILITY
5-20. Electromagnetic compatibility is the ability of systems, equipment, and devices
that use the electromagnetic spectrum to operate in their intended environments without
causing or suffering unacceptable or unintentional degradation because of
electromagnetic radiation or response (JP 3-85). Before units acquire EW equipment,
the units conduct electromagnetic compatibility analysis to identify any potential issues,
and to ensure maximum use of equipment.

EMISSION CONTROL
5-21. +Emission control is the selective and controlled use of electromagnetic, acoustic,
or other emitters to optimize command and control capabilities while minimizing, for
operations security: a. detection by enemy sensors; b. mutual interference among
friendly systems; and/or c. enemy interference with the ability to execute a military
deception plan (JP 3-85). EMCON reduces the likelihood of detection by threat sensors
and direction-finding systems and helps conceal the locations of friendly forces.
202

ATP 3-12.3

5-5

Chapter 5

5-22. +When establishing EMCON best practices commanders, assisted by the CEWO,
should carefully evaluate minimum required capabilities to support operations during
more restrictive EMCON conditions and discontinue use of unnecessary systems.
During operations, commanders should consider EMCON 3 (amber) as the baseline for
operations in the field. Units should routinely execute transitions to EMCON 4 (red) and
EMCON 5 (black) during conflict. Table 5-1 summarizes EMCON conditions.
+Table 5-1. Emission control conditions
EMCON
Condition

Description

EMCON 1
Green

Describes a situation where there is no apparent hostile activity against friendly
emitter operations. Operational performance of all EMS-dependent systems is
monitored; password and encryption systems are used as a layer of protection.

EMCON 2
Yellow

Describes an increased risk of attack after detection. Increased monitoring of all
EMS activities is mandated, and all Department of Defense end users must make
sure their systems are secure, encrypted, power levels monitored, and
transmissions limited. EMS usage may be restricted to certain emitters. Rehearsal
for elevated EMCON conditions is ideal.

EMCON 3
Amber

Describes when a risk has been identified. Electromagnetic countercountermeasures (encryption/frequency hop/directional antennas) on important
systems are a priority, and the CEWO’s alertness is increased. All unencrypted
systems are disconnected.

EMCON 4
Red

Describes when an attack has taken place, but the EMCON system is not at its
highest alertness. Non-essential emitters may be taken offline, alternate or
contingency means of communication may be implemented, and modifications are
made to standard lower EMCON configurations (power levels and antenna types).

EMCON 5
Black

Describes when attacks are taking place based on use of the EMS. The most
restrictive electromagnetic protection methods are enforced. Any compromised
systems are isolated from the rest of the network.

Legend:
CEWO
EMCON
EMS

cyber electromagnetic warfare officer
emission control
electromagnetic spectrum

5-23. +The EMCON emitter criteria table establishes the operational criteria for
emitters at each EMCON level and works in conjunction with the primary, alternate,
contingency, and emergency communication plan. Every emitter within the unit should
be included and the corresponding criteria described. The CEWO assists the G-3 or S-3
and the G-6 or S-6 in determining operating criteria for each type of emitter for each
EMCON condition. Table 5-2 on page 5-7 illustrates the use of the EMCON levels and
shows how they escalate for the single channel ground and airborne radio systemadvanced system improvement program radio.

5-6

ATP 3-12.3

202

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

+Table 5-2 Example emitter criteria table
Emitter
Criteria

Emitter Criteria by EMCON Condition
EMCON 1
(Green)

EMCON 2
(Yellow)

EMCON 3
(Amber)

EMCON 4
(Red)

EMCON 5
(Black)

Must encrypt
systems for
operation

Must encrypt
and operate
in frequency
hop mode

Must encrypt
and operate in
frequency hop
mode. Do not
exceed 10 watts
transmit power.
Use directional
antennas if
available

DO NOT
USE

SINCGARS

Use system as
prescribed in
the technical
manual

Legend:
EMCON
SINCGARS

emission control
single-channel ground and airborne radio system

Techniques to Control Emissions
5-24. The most basic protection from enemy EW is good radio discipline. This
discipline can take the form of using minimum power, antenna masking, and minimizing
transmissions.
Minimum Transmit Power
5-25. The use of minimum transmit power prevents signals from traveling beyond the
intended receiving station and thereby limits the threat’s ability to find and fix friendly
forces. Some transmitters include adjustable transmit power settings. A technique to
establish minimum transmission power is begin with the lowest power setting and
gradually increasing the output power until the intended recipient can validate the
successful reception of the transmitted signal.
Antenna Masking
5-26. Antenna masking allows for antenna characteristics such as power, direction, and
sensitivity to be modified by the use of shielding and radar reflective camouflage netting.
See paragraph 5-31 for more information on camouflage net masking.
Minimizing Transmissions
5-27. Techniques to minimize transmissions include ensuring all transmissions are
necessary, preplanning messages before transmitting them, transmitting quickly and
precisely, using equipment capable of data burst transmission, and alternate means of
communication. Table 5-3 on page 5-8 provides details on the techniques to minimize
transmissions.

202

ATP 3-12.3

5-7

Chapter 5

Table 5-3. Techniques for minimizing transmissions and transmission times
Technique

Description

Ensure all
transmissions
are necessary

Analysis of U.S. tactical communications indicates that most
communication used in training exercises is explanatory and not
directive. Units use tactical radio communications to convey orders
and critical information rapidly. Execution of the operation must be
inherent in training, planning, ingenuity, teamwork, and established
and practiced standing operating procedures. The high volume of
radio communications that usually precedes a tactical operation
makes the friendly force vulnerable to enemy interception, direction
finding, jamming, and deception.
Note. Even when communications are secure, the intensity of radio transmissions can
betray an operation, and the enemy can still disrupt the ability of U.S. forces to
communicate.
Preplan
The radio operator should know what to say before beginning a
messages before transmission. When the situation and time permit, the operator
transmitting
should write out the message before beginning the transmission.
This minimizes the number of pauses in the transmission and
them
decreases transmission time. It also ensures the conciseness of the
message.
Transmit quickly
and precisely

This is critical when the quality of communications is poor. This
reduces the need to repeat a radio transmission. Unnecessary
repetition increases transmission time and the enemy’s opportunity
to intercept U.S. transmissions and gain valuable information. When
a transmission is necessary, the radio operator should speak in a
clear, well-modulated voice, and use proper radiotelephone
procedures.

Use equipment
capable of data
burst
transmission

This is one of the most significant advantages of tactical satellite
communications systems. Soldiers use limited time for encoded
messages on a digital entry device for transmission over satellite
systems.

Use an alternate
means of
communications

Soldiers use alternate means of communications, such as cable,
wire, or messages to convey necessary directives and information.

Use brevity
codes

A brevity code is a code which provides no security, but which has
as its sole purpose the shortening of messages rather than the
concealment of their content. Refer to ATP 1-02.1 for more
information on brevity codes.

Radio Placement
5-28. The placement of transmitters and distant receivers in close proximity limits the
threat’s ability to jam the intended signal. The G-6 or S-6 staff ensures that antennas are
more than twice the distance of their height from infrastructure such as power lines. For
safety, units avoid placing antennas near sleep areas, tents, and vehicle parking areas.
5-29. The G-6 or S-6 staff manages friendly use of spectrum resources. The G-6 or S-6
staff spectrum manager provides the CEMA section spectrum manager with a database
5-8

ATP 3-12.3

202

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

of all assigned friendly frequencies. The G-6 or S-6 staff recommends command post
locations to the G-3 or S-3 staff. Variables for site selection include feasibility for
Defense Information Systems Network connectivity to higher, lower, and adjacent
command posts. Site selection includes electromagnetic protection considerations such
as—
 Available terrain for electromagnetic masking.
 Distance between transmitters and receivers.

TERRAIN MASKING
5-30. Transmitters placed on hilltops, mountaintops, or buildings are vulnerable to
threat direction-finding techniques, and jamming. Known transmitter locations allow a
threat to jam the receivers, listen to transmissions, collect information such as friendly
battle rhythm and duration of friendly transmissions, or to attack using lethal fires. To
mitigate these vulnerabilities, CEWOs use terrain masking techniques by placing
antennas on the side of the mountain, hill or building in a manner that allows the optimal
friendly use of the antenna while preventing threat detection and exploitation.
5-31. Figure 5-1 illustrates friendly use of terrain masking. In this example, friendly
forces avoid detection by threat direction-finding sensors. This technique applies to any
emitter, to include radars and directional antennas, focusing on placing the emitters
where they are least detectable.

Figure 5-1. Friendly use of terrain masking

202

ATP 3-12.3

5-9

Chapter 5

CAMOUFLAGE NET MASKING
5-32. Units use camouflage material to cover communications assemblages and their
power generators. It is difficult to conceal most communications systems. Radar
reflective camouflage netting is an effective means of blocking stray electromagnetic
radiation from directional antennas. Camouflage netting placed to the sides and back of
a line of sight or satellite communications antenna ensures only the main beam of the
antenna radiates. Since the main beam is directional, it is much harder for the threat to
detect; the threat would need to be directly in the transmission path.

WARTIME RESERVE MODES
5-33. Wartime reserve modes are characteristics and operating procedures of sensor,
communications, navigation aids, threat recognition, weapons, and countermeasures
systems that will contribute to military effectiveness if unknown to, or misunderstood
by, opposing commanders before they are used but could be exploited or neutralized if
known in advance (JP 3-85). Threats search for information that reveals friendly EW
vulnerabilities, such as technical articles, magazines, news programs, and web pages
that are available on the Internet. The Army prevents public access to wartime reserve
modes.

ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE
5-34. Electromagnetic interference is any electromagnetic disturbance, induced
intentionally or unintentionally, that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits
the effective performance of electromagnetic spectrum-dependent systems and electrical
equipment. (JP 3-85) Electromagnetic interference prevents successful transmissions.
Units must recognize and mitigate electromagnetic interference to use the
electromagnetic spectrum to communicate.
5-35. Electromagnetic protection is a preventive measure or countermeasure used to
mitigate intentional and unintentional electromagnetic interference. Electromagnetic
interference is a concern during planning and execution. A lack of consideration of
electromagnetic protection actions creates vulnerabilities to friendly use of the
electromagnetic spectrum. Electromagnetic interference does not always require action.

MITIGATION
5-36. Electromagnetic interference requires action when it negatively affects operations
by interfering with friendly use of the electromagnetic spectrum. Units incorporate
techniques to minimize, reduce, or eliminate prohibitive electromagnetic interference.
Techniques to resolve electromagnetic interference include—
 Changing friendly frequencies as prescribed in the signal operating
instructions or operation order.
 Implementing terrain masking techniques.
 Using directional antennas.
 Relocating transmitters and receivers.
5-10

ATP 3-12.3

202

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

5-37. The cause of electromagnetic interference can be internal or external. If the
electromagnetic interference remains after grounding or disconnecting the antenna, the
disturbance is most likely internal and caused by a radio malfunction. Users should
contact maintenance personnel for repairs or replace the faulty equipment. Operators
can eliminate or substantially reduce the electromagnetic interference or suspected
jamming by grounding the radio equipment or disconnecting the receiving antenna. If
measures to eliminate the radio as the source of the disturbance are unsuccessful, the
interference is most likely electromagnetic jamming.
5-38. Causes of unintentional electromagnetic interference include—
 Friendly and threat use of the same frequencies.
 Other electronic or electric and electromechanical equipment.
 Atmospheric conditions.
 Malfunction of the radio.
 A combination of any of the above.
5-39. Unintentional electromagnetic interference normally travels a short distance; a
search of the immediate area may reveal its source. Moving the receiving antenna a short
distance may cause noticeable variations in the strength of the interfering signal.
Conversely, little or no variation may indicate threat jamming. Regardless of the source,
users should take appropriate actions to reduce the effect of electromagnetic interference
on friendly communications.

ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE BATTLE DRILL
5-40. Some prohibitive electromagnetic interference has a measurable, operational
impact. Units execute battle drills to address prohibitive electromagnetic interference,
which helps isolate the cause of interference and dispel erroneous assumptions about its
cause. For example, knowing that CREW devices are jammers may lead to a hasty
assumption that a CREW device impairs the use of combat net radios when operator
error or faulty equipment is the cause of the electromagnetic interference. The
uninformed assumption that CREW systems are the problem leads to an unnecessary
loss of confidence in EW equipment. Lack of confidence in equipment can lead to
reluctance to prosecute EW and can negatively impact operations. Proper analysis uses
sensors and indicators that identify interfering frequencies, transmission power levels,
transmitter strength, and receiver sensitivity.
5-41. Normally, the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager submits JSIR reports to resolve
interference. When appropriate, the staff disseminates the mitigating steps to
subordinate units as lessons learned and best practices to avoid future interference. A
well-constructed electromagnetic interference battle drill guides units to respond to
electromagnetic interference in a consistent, methodical manner. Table 5-4 on page 512 is an example of an electromagnetic interference troubleshooting battle drill.
Note. Validated lessons learned and best practices are available on the Cyber
Lessons and Best Practices Website.

202

ATP 3-12.3

5-11

Chapter 5

Table 5-4. Electromagnetic interference troubleshooting battle drill
Signal

Description

1

Follow equipment troubleshooting steps (verify frequency, cable
and antenna connections, communications security). If
electromagnetic interference continues, follow remaining steps.

2

Determine start and stop times or duration of electromagnetic
interference.

3

Identify electromagnetic interference effect (interfering voice, noise,
static).

4

Identify other emitters in area of operations.

5

Check adjacent and nearby units for similar problems.

6

Prepare and submit a joint spectrum interference resolution report
through the G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager.

LEGEND

G-6
S-6

assistant chief of staff, signal
battalion or brigade signal staff officer

JAMMING
5-42. Communications are key at all levels of operations. Threat jamming techniques
may prevent commanders from communicating with subordinate units. The lack of
communications can negatively affect operations, affect the outcome of battle, and result
in possible loss of life. Communications operators must be able to recognize, overcome,
and report jamming activities.

RECOGNIZING ELECTROMAGNETIC JAMMING
5-43. Radio operations require that radio operators can recognize potential
characteristics of electromagnetic jamming. Recognizing electromagnetic jamming is
not always easy; the threat uses diverse forms of jamming. Radio operators require
awareness of the possibility of jamming. Training and field experience are invaluable
opportunities for operators’ ability to distinguish jamming from unintentional
electromagnetic interference.

Obvious Jamming
5-44. Obvious jamming is usually easy to detect. When experiencing jamming, it is
essential to recognize and overcome the incident. Table 5-5 on page 5-13 lists some
common jamming signals.

5-12

ATP 3-12.3

202

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

Table 5-5. Common jamming signals
Signal

Description

Random
Noise

It is indiscriminate in amplitude and frequency. It is similar to normal
background noise. Random noise degrades all types of signals.
Operators often mistake it for receiver or atmospheric noise and fail to
take appropriate electromagnetic protection actions.

Stepped
Tones

Tones transmitted in increasing and decreasing pitch. They resemble the
sound of bagpipes. Single-channel amplitude modulation or frequency
modulation use stepped tones for voice circuits.

Spark

Spark is one of the most effective jamming signals. Spark uses short
intensity and high intensity; they repeat at a rapid rate. This signal is
effective in disrupting all types of radio communications.

Gulls

Generated by a quick rise and slow fall of a variable radio frequency and
are similar to the cry of a seagull. It produces a nuisance effect and is
very effective against voice radio communications.

Random
Pulse

Pulses of varying amplitude, duration, and rate are generated and
transmitted. They disrupt teletypewriter, radar, and all types of data
transmission systems.

Wobbler

A single frequency modulated by a low and slowly varying tone. The
result is a howling sound that causes a nuisance effect on voice radio
communications.

Recorded
Sounds

Any audible sound, especially of a variable nature, distracts radio
operators and disrupts communications. Music, screams, applause,
whistles, machinery noise, and laughter are examples of recorded
sounds.

Preamble
Jamming

A broadcasted tone over the operating frequency of secure radio nets
resembles the synchronization preamble of the speech security
equipment. Preamble jamming results in all radios being locked in the
receive mode. It is especially effective when employed against radio
networks using speech security devices.

Subtle Jamming
5-45. The threat can use powerful, unmodulated or noise-modulated jamming signals.
Modulation is the process of adding information to an RF signal or carrier by varying
its amplitude, frequency, or phase. A lack of noise characterizes unmodulated jamming
signals. Noise-modulated jamming signals are characterized by noticeable audible noise.
Subtle jamming is ambiguous when there is no sound heard from the receivers. Although
everything appears normal to the radio operator, the receiver cannot receive an incoming
friendly signal. Users may assume their radios are malfunctioning, instead of
recognizing the subtle jamming.

OVERCOMING JAMMING
5-46. Threat jamming requires friendly action. The following paragraphs address the
actions to take for detected threat jamming. Users continue normal operations after
202

ATP 3-12.3

5-13

Chapter 5

overcoming jamming or jamming ceases and submit or update the JSIR report. The unit
submits a JSIR report regardless of overcoming the jamming or electromagnetic
interference. For more information about JSIR reporting, see appendix D.

Continue to Operate
5-47. Threat electromagnetic attack usually involves jamming followed by a brief
listening period. Operator activity during the listening period indicates how effective the
jamming has been. If friendly communications continue as normal, the threat assumes
the jamming is not effective. However, if the threat senses the radio traffic stops, they
assume the jamming is effective. Because the threat is monitoring friendly operations,
friendly operators continue to use the communications equipment to prevent the threat’s
assessment of the desired effect.

Improve the Signal-to-Jamming Ratio
5-48. The signal-to-jamming ratio is the relative strength of the desired signal to the
jamming signal at the receiver. Signal refers to the desired signal received. Jamming
refers to the jamming received. It is best to have a signal-to-jamming ratio in which the
desired signal is stronger than the jamming. In this situation, the jamming signal
cannot significantly degrade the desired signal. Improving the signal-to-jamming ratio
enables successful communications. To improve the signal-to-jamming ratio, operators
and signal leaders consider the following courses of action:
 Increase the transmitter power output.
 Adjust, change, or relocate the antenna.
 Establish a retransmission station.
 Use an alternate route for communications.
 Change frequencies.
Increase the Transmitter Power Output
5-49. When the threat successfully jams, operators use the available reserve power on
the distant transmitter to overpower jamming. The operator then submits a JSIR report.
Adjust, Change, or Relocate the Antenna
5-50. When jamming occurs, the radio operator ensures optimal antenna positioning to
receive the desired signal. Methods that apply to a specific radio set are in the
appropriate operator’s technical manual. Depending on the antenna, adjustment methods
include antenna reorientation, changing the antenna polarization, and installing a
different antenna with a longer range.
Note. Distant and local stations require the same antenna polarization. Operators
polarize antennas in the horizontal or vertical planes. See appendix A.

5-14

ATP 3-12.3

202

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques

Establish a Retransmission Station
5-51. A retransmission station reduces the distance between transmitters and intended
receivers. This technique improves the signal-to-jamming ratio.
Use an Alternate Route for Communications
5-52. Threat jamming seeks to prevent friendly forces from communicating with
another radio station. When degraded radio communications occur between two radio
stations, operators implement the primary, alternate, contingency, and emergency
communication plan and use another frequency or communication method. An example
of an alternate communication method is changing from a terrestrial line of sight
transmission path to satellite communications. Refer to FM 6-02 for more information
about primary, alternate, contingency, and emergency communication planning.
5-53. Units provide network diagrams that illustrate friendly radio stations, alternate
routes for communications, and the associated terrain. Radio operators use this
information to make route adjustments to improve communications.
Change Frequencies
5-54. Commanders may direct units to change to an alternate frequency to overcome
threat jamming. If a prescribed frequency change does not occur smoothly, the threat
may discover what is happening, and try to disrupt or degrade communications on the
new frequency. All radio operators require knowledge of when they are to switch to an
alternate frequency. Procedures that describe the conditions and plans to change
frequencies are included in the operation order, signal operating instructions, or standard
operating procedures.
5-55. Through CEMA, units have an opportunity to develop deception plans before
changing frequencies. Preplanned and well-coordinated actions are required for dummy
stations to continue to operate on the jammed frequency to mask the change to an
alternate frequency.

REPORTING JAMMING
5-56. Units report suspected jamming and any unidentified or unintentional
electromagnetic interference that disrupts the ability of U.S. forces to communicate.
Units report suspected jamming or interference, even if the radio operator can overcome
the effects of the jamming or interference. Units use the information in the JSIR report
to locate, mitigate, or destroy the threat jamming equipment or take other action to
benefit U.S. forces.
Note. Army units use the JSIR format to describe and report electromagnetic
interference for intentional and unintentional interference to friendly
communications. Refer to CJCSM 3320.02E for additional information
regarding the JSIR Program.

202

ATP 3-12.3

5-15

Chapter 5

REMEDIAL ELECTROMAGNETIC PROTECTION TECHNIQUES
5-57. Remedial electromagnetic protection techniques that help reduce the effectiveness
of threat jamming efforts are—
 Identification of threat jamming signals.
 Determination of the electromagnetic interference as being obvious or subtle
jamming.
 Recognition of jamming causing electromagnetic interference by—

Determining if the electromagnetic interference is internal or external to
the radio.

Determining if the electromagnetic interference is deliberate or
unintentional.
 Reporting jamming and other electromagnetic interference incidents.
 Overcoming jamming and electromagnetic interference by adhering to the
following techniques—

Continue to operate.

Diagnose the root cause of electromagnetic interference.

Improve the signal-to-jamming ratio.

Adjust the receiver settings.

Increase the transmitter power output.

Adjust or change the antenna.

Establish a retransmission station.

Relocate the antenna.

Use an alternate route for communications.

Change the frequencies.

Acquire another satellite or retransmission station.

Install firmware and software updates.

Use enhancements to tactical radio ancillary equipment and
communications security devices.

THREAT ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK ON FRIENDLY COMMUNICATIONS
NODES
5-58. Threats may attack or exploit friendly communications nodes that support
operations. They have developed equipment and techniques to contest friendly spectrum
use. Friendly units use electromagnetic protection measures to counter threat EW and
exploitation actions against friendly communications nodes and links.
5-59. Threat attacks on friendly communications nodes can disrupt or destroy
information, intelligence gathering efforts, and communications that support weapons
systems. Threat forces expend considerable resources gathering intelligence about U.S.
forces. Goals or effects may include—
 Jam friendly communications.

5-16

ATP 3-12.3

202

Electromagnetic Protection Techniques




Enter friendly radio networks.
Collect information and intelligence about friendly forces.

EQUIPMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS
ENHANCEMENTS
5-60. Some communications equipment has embedded capabilities to prevent jamming,
location, or listening by threat forces. Operators use these embedded capabilities when
supporting operations.

FREQUENCY HOPPING MODE
5-61. Frequency hopping helps mitigate the effects of threat jamming, and in keeping
friendly location data from threat forces. Some peer threats with advanced EW
equipment can jam radios that use frequency hopping techniques. Single-channel
transmissions are vulnerable to jamming by unsophisticated transmitters, so units use
frequency hopping mode but remain vulnerable to threat direction finding and
electromagnetic attack efforts.

ADAPTIVE ANTENNA TECHNIQUES
5-62. Adaptive antenna techniques result in more survivable communications. These
techniques typically link with spread spectrum waveforms to combine frequency
hopping with pseudo-noise coding. Pseudo-noise coding is a technique to make spread
spectrum waveforms and frequency hopping mode appear to be background RF noise to
an unintended receiver. Spread spectrum is a form of wireless communication in which
the frequency of the transmitted signal varies deliberately and uses more bandwidth than
the signal would normally, making it less susceptible to interference.

FREQUENCY HOP MULTIPLEXER
5-63. The frequency hop multiplexer and vehicular whip antennas enhance very high
frequency (VHF) communications. The frequency hop multiplexer is an antenna
multiplexer used with a single-channel ground and an airborne radio system in stationary
and mobile operations. The frequency hop multiplexer allows multiple radios to transmit
and receive through one VHF antenna while operating in the frequency hopping mode,
single-channel mode, or both. Using one antenna reduces the visual and electromagnetic
profiles of command posts and reduces emplacement and displacement times.

202

ATP 3-12.3

5-17

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 6

Electromagnetic Support Techniques
This chapter describes electromagnetic support planning and
execution techniques to include synchronizing signals intelligence
resources that complement electromagnetic support activities. This
chapter outlines lines of bearing, cuts, fixes, establishing a
direction-finding baseline, and what causes direction-finding errors.

PLANNING ELECTROMAGNETIC SUPPORT
6-1. Threat forces use the electromagnetic spectrum to give orders, monitor and
manage operations, detect aircraft using radar, and conduct direction finding. Collection
against and location of threat transmitters aids in the development of situational
understanding and assists with targeting. Electromagnetic support uses direction-finding
techniques to find threat transmitters. Once located, the commander can direct lethal or
nonlethal fires.

ELECTROMAGNETIC SUPPORT CONSIDERATIONS
6-2. The task and purpose of the mission determine whether a SIGINT or EW asset is
appropriate for a given mission. Electromagnetic support assets conduct immediate
threat recognition, targeting, future operations planning, and other tactical actions such
as threat geolocation for avoidance.
6-3. When the threat employs electromagnetic security measures, the CEWO may
require assistance from SIGINT elements to understand the nature of the emissions.
Electromagnetic security is the protection resulting from all measures designed to deny
unauthorized persons information of value that might be derived from their interception
and study of noncommunications electromagnetic radiations (e.g., radar) (JP 3-85).

PREPARING ELECTROMAGNETIC SUPPORT
6-4. The CEMA section uses electromagnetic support assets to scan the
electromagnetic environment for transmissions and illustrates the results in a manner
that the commander and staff can understand. Units develop an electromagnetic
environment survey using airborne, ground, and maritime platforms. The G-2 or S-2
assists the CEMA section by developing and disseminating the electromagnetic order of
battle (refer to FM 2-0). EW platoons conduct the electromagnetic environment survey.
The electromagnetic environment survey aids the CEWO in understanding friendly,
threat, and neutral spectrum use; the nature, limitations, and sources of electromagnetic
interference in an operational environment; and planning the employment of

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-1

Chapter 6

electromagnetic support equipment. The CEMA section submits requests for
information to address information gaps to the G-2 or S-2 staff.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ENVIRONMENT SURVEY
6-5. The electromagnetic environment survey provides input, and the CEMA section
enters the information into automated tools to maintain a current picture of the
electromagnetic environment. Like weather reports for aircraft pilots, the
electromagnetic environment survey informs the CEWO about the activities and
conditions of the electromagnetic environment, enabling the CEWO to choose optimal
courses of action for EW.
6-6. Electromagnetic environment surveys begin with the enemy electromagnetic
order of battle. The electromagnetic order of battle provides the CEWO with an initial
overview of threat spectrum-dependent capabilities derived from intelligence
preparation of the battlefield. The electromagnetic order of battle assists the CEWO in
making EW plans that exploit adversary vulnerabilities while preserving friendly
capabilities.

EXECUTING ELECTROMAGNETIC SUPPORT
6-7. Electromagnetic support gathers information about friendly and threat
electromagnetic emissions to support the commander’s situational awareness and
decision making. Understanding friendly electromagnetic signatures and threat
capabilities and locations helps commanders plan electromagnetic protection and
EMCON measures to protect friendly personnel and systems. The information gathered
through electromagnetic support enables threat recognition and supports current
operations, targeting, protection, and future operations planning. Some information
gathered during electromagnetic support may simultaneously feed into intelligence
channels for further processing into intelligence products.
6-8. Comparing detected electromagnetic signatures with the electromagnetic order of
battle can assist in determining whether SIGINT activities have already characterized
the signal. This information informs development of protection plans. EW personnel
should refer unknown or uncharacterized signatures to the G-2 or S-2 for analysis.
6-9. The CEWO and the G-2 or S-2 mutually develop standard operating procedures
and battle drills to integrate and synchronize electromagnetic support and SIGINT
activities. Integration techniques take advantage of similar equipment capabilities and
synchronize EW and SIGINT resources to increase flexibility. SIGINT teams pass
targeting information to EW teams. The SIGINT direction-finding equipment
complements geolocation efforts and transitions a line of bearing into a cut or a fix for
targeting. Integration facilitates immediate sharing of information and reduces delays in
targeting.

6-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Support Techniques

ELECTROMAGNETIC RECONNAISSANCE
6-10. Electromagnetic reconnaissance is the detection, location, identification, and
evaluation of foreign electromagnetic radiations (JP 3-85). EW personnel conduct
electromagnetic reconnaissance to understand the types of threat emissions. The
information obtained from electromagnetic reconnaissance helps shape the operational
environment by providing the commander with situational awareness to support
decision-making. Information from electromagnetic reconnaissance can lead to the
implementation or modification of electromagnetic protection measures or dictate
electromagnetic attack actions.

THREAT WARNING
6-11. Threat warning enables the commander and staff to quickly identify immediate
risks to friendly forces and implement appropriate countermeasures. EW personnel
employ sensors to detect, intercept, identify, and locate threat electromagnetic signatures
and provide early warning of imminent or potential hostile activities. EW personnel
coordinate with the G-2 or S-2 before nominating a detected emitter for targeting.
Commanders may need to accept risk, balancing the value of continued SIGINT
collection on a target emitter versus the tactical utility of eliminating the threat
capability. Threat warning contributes to intelligence preparation of the battlefield and
helps characterize threat communications and noncommunications emitters.

DIRECTION FINDING
6-12. Direction-finding activities provide lines of bearing, cuts, and fixes to locate
transmitters. When EW teams conduct direction finding, they use available
electromagnetic support assets. The CEMA section coordinates support from the G-2 or
S-2 for SIGINT resources to sense transmitters, collect information, and geolocate
specified emitters of interest. The CEMA section shares the information collected from
electromagnetic support assets during direction-finding activities with the G-2 or S-2 to
aid in ongoing intelligence preparation of the battlefield. In addition, the CEMA section
can provide direction-finding information to the targeting board to aid in targeting
requirements.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-3

Chapter 6

Line of Bearing
6-13. A line of bearing is a single approximate azimuth from a sensor providing the
approximate direction to the transmitter. Figure 6-1 illustrates a line of bearing
approximate direction.

Figure 6-1. Example of a line of bearing approximate direction

6-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Support Techniques

Cut
6-14. A cut uses two approximate lines of bearing to calculate the general location of a
transmitter by determining where two lines of bearing intersect. Figure 6-2 illustrates a
cut general location.

Figure 6-2. Example of a cut general location

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-5

Chapter 6

Fix
6-15. Figure 6-3 illustrates a fix, which provides a more precise location. A fix uses
three or more approximate lines of bearing to determine a location by triangulation. A
cut or fix may use approximate azimuths from one sensor receiving the signal multiple
times from different locations, or from different sensors.

Figure 6-3. Example of a fix more precise location

Direction-Finding Baselines
6-16. A ground-based direction-finding baseline is that imaginary line or axis along
which the direction-finding equipment of a direction-finding network deploy. A
direction-finding network consists of three or more individual sites. The establishment
of a direction-finding baseline is a matter of positioning the equipment so that good
bearing angles for triangulation within the target area are possible. Triangulation is the
intersection of bearings at the target area.
6-17. EW personnel ensure that each direction-finding site has an unobstructed path
between the direction-finding antenna and any point in the target area. Often, the tactical
situation precludes a clear path. EW personnel plan tactical direction-finding baselines
to ensure masked or hidden portions of the target area are still visible to at least three
sites. There are two types of baseline configurations used to establish a ground-based
direction-finding network—concave and convex.

6-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Support Techniques

Concave Baseline
6-18. Direction-finding networks use concave baselines when the expected target
location will be in a compact, narrow but deep frontal area. Concave baselines offer
satisfactory bearings at longer ranges, and excellent triangulation at short ranges. Figure
6-4 illustrates a concave baseline.

Figure 6-4. Concave baseline
Convex Baselines
6-19. Convex direction-finding baselines provide reasonable azimuth angles over a
wide front. Convex baselines will satisfy the average tactical or strategic situation.
Figure 6-5 on page 6-8 illustrates a convex baseline.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-7

Chapter 6

Figure 6-5. Convex baseline

Baseline Distance
6-20. The baseline distance is a straight-line distance that separates the two outermost
direction-finding sites. As a rule of thumb, the depth at which a direction-finding
network can effectively locate enemy transmitters is equal to the total distance of the
baseline joining the two outermost direction-finding sites. This distance extends from
the center of the imaginary baseline to the target area. For example, if the directionfinding baseline is 80 kilometers in length, the net fix location capability is 80 kilometers
in depth.
6-21. Establishing a tactical direction-finding baseline is dependent on the mission
variables of METT-TC (I). Tactical commanders determine areas available for siting
direction finding equipment within their area of operations. The CEWO dictates the
baseline configuration employed in most situations. Figure 6-6 on page 6-9 illustrates
baseline distance.

6-8

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Support Techniques

Figure 6-6. Baseline distance

PROBABILITIES AND ERRORS
6-22. The reception of a line of bearing on a target signal by a direction-finding receiver
does not always determine the exact azimuth to the transmitter. Because of weather and
terrain effects on radio signals, the angle of the target signal varies upon arrival.
6-23. For direction-finding missions, the further the receiver is from the transmitter, the
greater the error associated with the intercept angle. When the CEWO plots lines of
bearing of three or more receiving stations on a map, there is a triangular area of overlap
where the lines of bearing intersect to form a fix. A circle drawn with a radius that covers
all the points of the triangle represents the location of the transmitter. The circle is the
circular error probability. Because there is circular error probability, the precise location
of the transmitter cannot be certain. Figure 6-7 on page 6-10 illustrates circle error
probability.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-9

Chapter 6

Figure 6-7. Circular error probability
6-24. The EW platoon leader minimizes the circular error probability of a fix by using
multiple lines of bearing of the same signal and plotting the angles to determine a more
precise location. The more lines of bearing used to obtain a fix, the smaller the circular
error probability.

ERRORS AFFECTING INTERCEPT ANGLES
6-25. When conducting direction-finding activities, the EW platoon may encounter
various signal errors that affect intercept angles. Understanding that these signal errors
exist and being able to identify certain characteristics may minimize how much the
signals are affected. The signal errors that should be considered are—
 Source error.
 Path error.
 Polarization error.
 Site error.
 Instrument error.

Source Error
6-26. A source error is a disruption of radio waves introduced near the targeted
transmitter. The type of directional antenna used or the terrain conditions at the antenna
site may cause this type of error. If the direction-finding equipment is farther than 15
kilometers from the transmitting antenna, the size of the source error is usually small. If
6-10

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Support Techniques

the direction finding equipment is closer than 15 kilometers, the source error causes an
inaccurate line of bearing.

Path Error
6-27. Deviations in frequency and phase between the transmitter and direction-finding
system are path error. Important sources of path error include—
 Scatter.
 Refraction.
 Reflection.
 Reradiation.
Scatter
6-28. A small portion of the radio wave entering the ionosphere is scattered instead of
bending and returning to the Earth’s surface. A scattered wave projects in any direction,
returning to the Earth at random angles. The scatter phenomenon accounts for signals
sporadically received in skip zone regions. An error caused by scattering has a greater
impact on strategic direction-finding sites. An error caused by scatter has little impact
on tactical direction finding sites.
Refraction
6-29. Refraction occurs when waves bend or refract from their normal path as they pass
from one medium to another. For example, the velocity of a radio wave over salt water
is greater than its velocity over land or fresh water. Figure 6-8 on page 6-12 illustrates
the false azimuth that results from the change in a radio wave’s direction when it crosses
a coastline at an oblique angle. Refraction error is evident when either a directionfinding site or the transmitting antenna is near the coast. This effect also varies with the
transmission frequency.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-11

Chapter 6

Figure 6-8. False azimuth indicated by refraction error
Reflection
6-30. Reflection occurs when radio waves strike and reflect off an artificial or natural
surface. Figure 6-9 on page 6-13 illustrates the reflection of a radio wave. The degree of
reflection is not measurable, as it depends upon the obstruction and the frequency of the
transmitted wave. Generally, direction-finding errors are greatest from reflection when
the reflecting media are located near either the transmitter or the direction-finding
equipment. Reflection error affects both strategic and tactical direction-finding systems.

6-12

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Support Techniques

Figure 6-9. Reflection of a radio wave
Reradiation
6-31. Reradiation occurs when a wave strikes a metallic object that resonates at the
wave’s frequency. Abnormally polarized, reradiated signals make it difficult for
direction-finding equipment to determine accurate lines of bearing. Reradiation error
occurs near the direction-finding site. Barbed wire, trucks, tanks, other combat vehicles,
and metal buildings can cause a reradiation error. It is essential to consider obstacles
when selecting direction-finding sites.

Polarization Error
6-32. Polarization error occurs when a direction-finding antenna receives an undesired
voltage induced by a component of a radio wave. This undesired voltage blurs the
bearing and makes an azimuth reading difficult to determine. For example, a directionfinding antenna, such as a vertical loop, receives vertically polarized radio waves. If the
received wave is abnormally polarized, the voltage induced by the two components may
combine. The azimuth reading on the signal is difficult, if not impossible, to determine.
The polarization error effect depends on the direction-finding antenna’s ability to
discriminate between the vertically polarized wave and the horizontally polarized wave

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

6-13

Chapter 6

of the received signal. Polarization error is common in most direction-finding activities.
For more information about polarization error, see appendix A.

Site Error
6-33. Site error occurs in the immediate vicinity of the direction-finding site. The proper
orientation of the antenna is critical to accurate direction finding; therefore, at each new
location, the operator orients the antenna to a known reference point, such as true north.
Adapting the antenna reference point produces an accurate measurement of the arrival
angle of the wavefront. Obstructions near direction-finding sites contribute to site error.
The closer the obstruction is to the direction-finding site, the greater its adverse effect
on the accuracy of the site’s lines of bearing.

Instrument Error
6-34. Poor maintenance and improper calibration of direction-finding equipment can
result in instrument error. Direction-finding equipment requires calibrations and
adjustments at regular intervals. Maintenance, calibrations, and equipment adjustments
improve direction-finding performance. These procedures are available in associated
direction-finding equipment technical manuals.

6-14

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Appendix A

The Electromagnetic Spectrum
Electromagnetic warfare professionals must understand radio wave
propagation, the electromagnetic spectrum, and the electromagnetic
environment to achieve desired effects. This appendix describes the
fundamentals of the electromagnetic spectrum and radio wave
propagation.

RADIO WAVE BANDS AND CHARACTERISTICS
A-1. Frequency is an essential consideration in radio wave propagation. Table A-1
shows the frequency ranges of each band.
Table A-1. Radio wave bands and frequencies
Radio Wave Band

Frequency

Frequency in megahertz

ELF

3–30 hertz

Only a small portion of the
band is useful for
communications.

VLF

3–300 kHz

Below .03 MHz

LF

30–300 kHz

.03–.3 MHz

MF

300 kilohertz–3 MHz

.3–3 MHz

Legend:
EHF
ELF
GHz
HF
kHz
LF

HF

3–30 MHz

3–30 MHz

VHF

30–300 MHz

30–300 MHz

UHF

300 MHz –3 GHz

300–3,000 MHz

SHF

3–30 GHz

3,000–30,000 MHz

EHF

30–300 GHz

30,000–300,000 MHz

extremely high frequency
extremely low frequency
gigahertz
high frequency
kilohertz
low frequency

MF
MHz
SHF
UHF
VHF

medium frequency
megahertz
super high frequency
ultrahigh frequency
very high frequency

EXTREMELY LOW FREQUENCY
A-2. Generally, extremely low frequency waves occur accidentally or naturally. This
frequency is the white noise and electrical hum encountered in almost all circuits,
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-1

Appendix A

resulting from the interaction of solar wind and atmospheric charges. Extremely low
frequency is effective for subsurface communications.

VERY LOW FREQUENCY
A-3. Very low frequency signals are compatible with the Earth-ionosphere waveguide
and propagate over great distances with low attenuation and excellent stability. Earthionosphere waveguide is a phenomenon that allows some radio waves to propagate in
the space between the ground and the boundary of the ionosphere. During magnetic
storms, very low frequency signals may constitute the only source of radio
communications over great distances. Operators do not use very low frequency for great
distances over land because of the long wavelength and requirement for large antennas.
Magnetic storms have little effect on these transmissions because of the efficiency of
the Earth-ionosphere waveguide. However, interference from atmospheric noise may be
troublesome. Applications include navigation, time signals, submarine communications,
and certain aircraft.

LOW FREQUENCY
A-4. As frequency increases to the low frequency band and diffraction decreases, there
is greater attenuation with distance, and the range for a given power output rapidly drops.
Using more efficient antennas for transmitting offsets the drop in power and increases
range. Low frequency signals are most stable within ground wave distance of the
transmitter. A wider bandwidth permits pulsed signals at 100 kilohertz. The pulsed
signals allow separation of the stable ground wave pulse from the variable skywave
pulse up to 1,500 kilometers (932 miles), and up to 2,000 kilometers (1,243 miles) for
overwater paths. Loran systems use the low frequency band, which is useful for radio
direction finding.

MEDIUM FREQUENCY
A-5. Medium frequency ground waves provide dependable service, but long-distance
communications require increased transmit power. This range varies from about 645
kilometers (400 miles) at the lower portion of the band to about 24 kilometers (15 miles)
at the upper end for a transmitted signal of 1 kilowatt. Achievable distance depends on—
 Transmitter power level.
 Antenna efficiency.
 The nature of the terrain between the transmitting and receiving stations.
A-6. Elevating the antenna may allow transmission of direct waves. Direct wave
propagation may improve the quality of the transmission. At the band’s lower
frequencies, skywaves are available both day and night. As the frequency increases,
ionospheric absorption increases to a maximum at about 1,400 kilohertz. At higher
frequencies, the absorption decreases, permitting increased use of skywaves. Since the
ionosphere changes with the hour, season, and sunspot cycle, the reliability of skywave
signals is variable. By careful selection of frequency, ranges of as much as 12,875
kilometers (8,000 miles) with 1 kilowatt of transmitted power are possible, using multiA-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

hop signals. However, the frequency selection is critical. If the frequency is too high,
the signals penetrate the ionosphere and are lost in space; if it is too low, signals are too
weak. In general, skywave reception is equally good by day or night. Lower frequencies
are best for the night.

HIGH FREQUENCY
A-7. The ground wave range of HF signals is limited to about 5 kilometers (3 miles),
but the antenna’s elevation may increase the direct wave distance of transmission.
Additionally, the height of the antenna has a substantial effect on skywave
transmissions. By day, this may be 10–30 megahertz; at night, it may drop to the 8–10
megahertz range. Army forces use HF radios for beyond line of sight communication.

VERY HIGH FREQUENCY
A-8. VHF communication uses the direct wave, or direct wave plus a ground reflected
wave. Although some wave interference between direct and ground-reflected waves is
present, elevating the antenna to increase the distance at which direct waves can be used
results in increased reception distances. Diffraction in the VHF range is much less than
with lower frequencies, but most evident when signals cross sharp mountain peaks or
ridges. Under suitable conditions, ionospheric reflections are sufficiently strong to be
useful, but generally, they are unavailable. There is little interference from atmospheric
noise in this band. Reasonably efficient directional antennas are possible with VHF.
Uses include terrestrial line of sight, ground-to-air, air-to-air, land, and maritime-mobile
communications. Most tactical radios operate over VHF range.

ULTRAHIGH FREQUENCY
A-9. Skywaves are absent in the ultrahigh frequency band since the ionosphere lacks
enough density to refract the waves, which instead pass through the ionosphere into
space. Ground waves and ground-reflected waves are usable, although there is some
wave interference. Diffraction is negligible, but the radio horizon extends about 15
percent beyond the visible horizon, due to refraction. Reception of ultrahigh frequency
(UHF) signals is virtually free from fading and interference by atmospheric noise. This
band is widely used for ship-to-ship and ship-to-shore communication. Army forces use
UHF for narrowband (single-channel) tactical satellite, some radars, and terrestrial-line
of sight communication.

SUPER HIGH FREQUENCY
A-10. In the super high frequency band, also known as the microwave or centimeterwave band, skywaves are absent. Transmission is entirely by direct and ground-reflected
waves. Diffraction and interference due to atmospheric noise are virtually nonexistent.
Transmission in the super-high frequency band is similar to that of ultrahigh frequency,
but the effects of using shorter waves is greater. Reflection by clouds, water droplets,
and dust particles increases, causing greater scattering, increasing wave interference and

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-3

Appendix A

fading. The super-high frequency range is used for terrestrial-line of sight radios, radar,
and wideband satellite communications.

EXTREMELY HIGH FREQUENCY
A-11. Extremely high frequency is the highest radio frequency range. Compared to
terrestrial radio signals in lower ranges, extremely high frequency is even more prone to
atmospheric attenuation than super high frequency. Protected satellite communications
use extremely high frequency.

REGULATION OF FREQUENCY USE
A-12. While the characteristics of various frequencies are important to the selection of
the most suitable one for any given purpose, there are additional considerations.
Confusion and extensive interference would result if every user had complete freedom
of selection. The allocation of various frequency bands to particular uses is a matter of
international agreement. Within the United States, the Federal Communications
Commission authorizes the use of specific frequencies. Figure A-1 on page A-5 displays
the frequencies supporting DOD capabilities, federally controlled frequencies, and
shared spectrum.

A-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

Figure A-1. Department of Defense use of the electromagnetic spectrum

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-5

Appendix A

EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE
A-13. The Earth’s atmosphere encompasses numerous layers, three of which are key to
this discussion: the troposphere, the stratosphere, and the ionosphere. The troposphere
and ionosphere play a crucial role in long-range radio communications. Table A-2
summarizes the characteristics and features of the three layers.
Table A-2. Atmospheric layers, elevation, characteristics, and their effects on
radio waves
Atmospheric
Layer

Ionosphere

Elevation in
Kilometers(km)
and Miles (mi)

50–600 km
31–373 mi

Characteristics

Electrically charged set
of layers with large
amounts of free
electrons.

Effects on Radio
Frequencies
• Excellent
refraction of
medium
frequency and
high frequency
signals.
• Primary medium
for skywaves.

Stratosphere

15–50 km
9–31 mi

The only isothermal
region of the
atmosphere.
• Sustains life.

Troposphere

Legend:
km
mi

10–15 km
6–9 mi

• Lowest region of the
atmosphere.
• Temperatures
decreases with
increasing altitude.

No effect.
• Primarily acts to
absorb radio
waves.
• Small amounts
of refraction
possible, but
unpredictable.

kilometers
miles

TROPOSPHERE
A-14. The troposphere is that portion of the Earth’s atmosphere extending from the
surface of the Earth to an elevation of approximately 10–15 kilometers (6–9 miles). This
region of the atmosphere greatly influences electromagnetic emissions—a direct result
of the ever-changing conditions, such as temperature and moisture content, within this
layer. This region is where most weather activities occur; it also contains the mixture of
life-sustaining gases.

STRATOSPHERE
A-15. The stratosphere is located between the troposphere and the ionosphere about 15–
50 kilometers (9–31 miles) above the Earth’s surface. The stratosphere and the
A-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

isothermal region are synonymous. The isothermal region, by definition, maintains a
nearly constant temperature. The stratosphere has little, if any, effect on radio waves,
which travel through this layer to reach the ionosphere.

IONOSPHERE
A-16. The ionosphere is a region of numerous positive and negative ions and unattached
electrons. The extent of ionization depends upon the kinds of atoms present, the density
of the atmosphere, the position relative to the Sun (time of day and season), solar flares,
magnetic storms, and nuclear detonations, all impacting ionization. After sunset, ions
and electrons recombine faster than they are separated, decreasing the ionization of the
atmosphere. Table A-3 on page A-8 illustrates the differences in the three major regions
of the Earth’s atmosphere.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-7

Appendix A

Table A-3. Ionospheric layers and effects on radio waves
Ionosphere
Layer

F

E

Elevation

Features

145–400 km
90–249 mi
(F2: 145–200
km)
(F2: 90–124
mi)
(F1: 240–400
km)
(F1: 149–249
mi)

• Very positively
ionized with large
amounts of free
electrons.

100–200 km
62–124 mi

• During the day,
separates into the F1
and F2 layers.
• At night, F layer
decreases in
ionization and
increases in altitude.

Legend:
HF
km
mi

50–100 km
31–62 mi

• Primary means of
refracting medium
frequency and high
frequency signals
in skywave
propagation.
• At night, slightly
erratic behavior,
but much greater
communications
distances.

• Positively ionized with
• Erratic behavior.
varying amounts of
• Sometimes refracts
free electrons.
radio waves in the
• Condition changes
medium frequency,
with temperature,
high frequency,
angle of the sun,
and very high
magnetic fields, and
frequency bands.
time of day.
• Layer closest to the
Earth.

D

Effects on Radio
Frequencies

• Negatively ionized
with relatively little
free electrons.

• Primarily acts to
absorb HF radio
waves.

• Layer may refract
low frequency and
very low frequency,
• Exists only during the
but unpredictable.
day.

high frequency
kilometers
Miles

A-17. In the ionosphere, air density is so low that oxygen exists mainly as separate
atoms, rather than as combined oxygen molecules, as it does nearer to the Earth’s
surface. The F layer is where the energy level is low, and ionization from solar radiation
is intense. Above this level, the ionization decreases because of the lack of atoms to be
ionized. Below this level, it decreases because the ionizing agent of the appropriate
energy is already absorbed. During daylight, two levels of maximum ionization are
present—the F2 layer, at about 200 kilometers (125 miles) above the Earth’s surface,
and the F1 layer, at about 145 kilometers (90 miles). At night, these combine to form a
single F layer. The D layer disappears at night due to low ionization. Figure A-2 on page
A-9 illustrates the composition of the ionosphere during the day and then during the
night.
A-8

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

Figure A-2. The ionosphere—daytime and nighttime composition
A-18. The ion—a key characteristic of the atmosphere—affects radio waves. Since an
atom normally has an equal number of negatively charged electrons and positively
charged protons, it is electrically neutral. An ion is an atom or a group of atoms that
become electrically charged, either positively or negatively, by the loss or gain of one
or more electrons.
A-19. Loss of electrons may occur in a variety of ways. In the atmosphere, ions form
due to the collision of atoms with rapidly moving particles, or due to the effects of
cosmic rays or ultraviolet light. In the lower atmosphere, recombination soon occurs,
leaving a small percentage of ions. However, in the thin atmosphere far above the
Earth’s surface atoms are widely separated, and many ions may be present.

BANDS OF THE ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM
A-20. The electromagnetic spectrum encompasses the entire range of electromagnetic
radiation frequencies. The frequency range suitable for radio transmission extends from
10 kilohertz–300,000 megahertz. This portion of the spectrum has several bands, as
shown in figure A-3. Below the RF spectrum, and overlapping it, is the audio frequency
band, extending from 20–20,000 hertz. Above the RF spectrum are infrared, the optical
(visible) spectrum (light in its various colors), ultraviolet rays, x-rays, and gamma rays.
Figure A-3 on page A-10 illustrates the electromagnetic spectrum and communication
bands. Within the RF range, from 1–40 gigahertz (1,000–40,000 megahertz), between
the ultrahigh frequency and extremely high frequency are additional bands, defined as—
 L band: 1–2 gigahertz—Global Positioning System, Inmarsat, and Iridium.
 S band: 2–4 gigahertz—some radar.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-9

Appendix A







C band: 4–8 gigahertz—terrestrial line of sight, some radar, and wideband
satellite communications.
X band: 8-12 gigahertz—terrestrial line of sight, some radar, and wideband
satellite communications.
Ku band: 12–18 gigahertz—wideband satellite communications; protected
satellite communications uplink.
K band: 18–27 gigahertz—short-range radar.
Ka band: 27–40 gigahertz— protected satellite communications downlink;
close-range targeting radar.

Figure A-3. The electromagnetic spectrum and communication bands
A-21. Modern communications systems use frequencies between extremely low
frequency and extremely high frequency. Typical frequency ranges for modern
communications include—
 Voice (push-to-talk) radios use HF through ultrahigh frequency range.
 Cordless telephones use VHF range.
 Television broadcast (Channels 2 through 13) uses VHF range.
 Frequency modulation (FM) radio broadcast uses VHF range.

A-10

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum





Television broadcast (Channels 14 through 69) use ultrahigh frequency
range.
Cellular phones use L and S bands.
Satellite communications use C, X, Ku, and Ka bands between ultrahigh
frequency and extremely high frequency ranges.

RADIO WAVES
A-22. Radio waves are one form of electromagnetic radiation. Radio waves form the
foundation of radio communications. Applications for use include fixed and mobile
radio communication, broadcasting, communications satellites, radar and radio
navigation systems, and wireless computer networks.

RADIO WAVE TERMINOLOGY
A-23. Understanding radio wave theory requires understanding common terms. Radio
wave terms include—
 Cycle.
 Frequency.
 Wavelength.
 Phase.
 Amplitude.
 Modulation.

Cycle
A-24. One cycle is a complete sequence of values, from wave crest to wave crest or from
zero amplitude to zero amplitude. The distance traveled by the energy during one cycle
is the wavelength, usually expressed in metric units (such as meters or centimeters).

Frequency
A-25. Frequency is the number of cycles per second expressed in hertz. The entire
pattern of a wave, before repeating, is one cycle. One thousand hertz equals one kilohertz
(kHz), 1 million hertz equals one megahertz (MHz), and 1 billion hertz equals one
gigahertz (GHz). The radio frequency spectrum ranges from 3 kilohertz–300 gigahertz.

Wavelength
A-26. The wavelength is the distance a wave takes to complete one cycle. Wavelength
also measures the distance from any one point of a wave to the same point on the next
wave, such as crest to crest or trough to trough. Wavelengths are measured in metric
units. The longer the wavelength, the better a wave reacts to propagation properties.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-11

Appendix A

Phase
A-27. The phase of a wave is the amount the cycle progresses from a specified origin.
For most purposes, phase is expressed in circular measure; 360 degrees is considered a
complete cycle. Generally, the origin is not important, the principal interest being the
phase relative to that of some other wave. Thus, two waves with crests one-quarter cycle
apart are 90 degrees out of phase. If the crest of one wave (+) occurs at the trough
(-) of another, the two are 180 degrees out of phase.

Amplitude
A-28. The amplitude of a wave is the distance measured from the centerline, or resting
point, to the top of the crest or the bottom of the trough. The larger the amplitude the
more energy a wave carries. Figure A-4 illustrates two cycles of a sine wave, depicting
frequency, cycle, wavelength, and amplitude.

Figure A-4. Elements of a radio wave

Modulation
A-29. Modulation is a process that alters one or more properties of a waveform to convey
information. Modulation techniques can be either analog or digital.

MODULATION TECHNIQUES
A-30. There is a variety of modulation techniques available for radio communication.
Each of the techniques have some characteristics that make them useful in certain
circumstances and in certain frequency ranges.

A-12

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

Continuous Wave
A-31. Continuous wave refers to a signal transmitted at a constant frequency and
amplitude. Continuous waves are only audible at the extremely low and very low
frequency ranges, when they may produce an audible high-pitched hum in a receiver.
Applications for continuous wave include radio direction finding and Morse code
communications. Any of several types of modulation may be used.

Amplitude Modulation
A-32. In amplitude modulation, the amplitude of the carrier wave alters according to the
amplitude of a modulating wave, usually of audio frequency, as shown in figure A-5.
The receiver demodulates the signal by removing the carrier wave and converting it to
its original form. This form of modulation is widely used in voice radio, as in the
standard broadcast band of commercial broadcasting.

Frequency Modulation
A-33. In frequency modulation, the frequency changes according to the frequency of the
modulating signal, as shown in figure A-5. Tactical radios most commonly use
frequency modulation.

Figure A-5. Amplitude modulation and frequency modulation

Pulse Modulation
A-34. Pulse modulation is somewhat different from other forms. There is no impressed
modulating wave. In this form of transmission, the transmitter uses short bursts of the
carrier wave, separated by relatively long periods of silence, during which there is no
transmission (see figure A-6 on page A-14). Some radio navigation aids use this
transmission type including radar and radio navigation such as loran navigation.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-13

Appendix A

Figure A-6. Pulse modulation

Phase-Shift Keying
A-35. Phase shift keying modulates the analog carrier wave with a digital signal, where
the phase of the carrier wave shifts between two or more values. There are multiple
phase shift keying methods used in radio communications. The simplest method utilized
is a bi-phase method (0 degrees and 180 degrees), where 0-degree phase equals a binary
0 and 180-degree phase equals a binary 1.

RADIO WAVE PROPAGATION
A-36. Radio waves travel through space at light speed—approximately 300,000,000
meters per second (186,000 miles per second). The following is a conversion formula
for wavelength and frequency. If the frequency in hertz is known and a conversion to
wavelength is desired, apply—

A-37. If wavelength (in meters) is known and a conversion to frequency (hertz) is
desired, apply—

A-38. Radio wave propagation extends or transmits electromagnetic energy through
space. Wavelength, frequency, and polarization are essential elements of the actual wave
and affect radio wave propagation. The simplest form of propagation is through the
space wave. The wave radiates from the transmitter and continues through space until it
reaches the receiver. The Earth’s curved surface, while appearing to be flat over a short
distance, limits the effective line of sight range.
A-39. Users determine the total limiting distance by assuming an Earth with a radius
four-thirds its proper radius. Such an Earth would have a larger circumference and,
hence, a longer distance to the horizon. Increasing the height of either the transmitting
or the receiving antenna extends line of sight range, effectively extending the horizon.
Given the height of two antennas (in feet), the line of sight distance can be calculated by

A-14

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

identifying the square root of the known height, multiplying the result by 1.41, and
adding the sums together to obtain the line of sight distance in miles. The following
formula can also be applied using kilometers and meters:
A-40. This line of sight distance formula does not include terrain or address free-space
path loss, which involves the loss of signal strength along an unobstructed line of sight
path (see paragraph A-72).
A-41. Figure A-7 gives an approximation of the line of sight transmission range without
any mathematical calculations. Using a straightedge on the chart, aligned with the
elevations of the transmitting and receiving antennas, allows a user to determine the
transmission range.

Figure A-7. Antenna heights and line of sight distances
A-42. Radio waves tend to travel in straight lines unless acted upon by some force. Radio
waves tend to reflect off sharply defined objects. The higher the frequency, the greater
the tendency of signals to reflect off objects. A refracted wave bounces off the
ionosphere at the same angle at which it arrives, meaning the angle of incidence is equal
to the angle of arrival. Radio waves can also encounter other obstructions or objects that
will scatter, diffract, or reflect the signal. Substantial energy losses limit the distance of
travel when the Earth reflects the waves. This energy is lost in the form of heat dissipated
into the Earth’s crust. Factors that affect radio wave propagation include—
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-15

Appendix A







Wavelength.
Polarization.
Physical obstructions.
Space, land, air, and water.
Weather.

POLARIZATION
A-43. Radio waves produce both an electric field and magnetic field, which are always
perpendicular. The direction of the E field of a radio wave relative to the ground
determines the polarization of the wave (see figure A-8). Polarization can be linear—
vertical or horizontal—or nonlinear (circular or elliptical). Thus, if the component field
is vertical, the wave is vertically polarized, and if horizontal, it is horizontally polarized.

Figure A-8. Electric and magnetic fields of a radio wave
A-44. To illustrate vertical wave polarization, imagine a rope lying reasonably straight
on the ground. If one raises and lowers the loose end of the rope with a violent up and
down motion, a series of undulating waves will travel along the rope. The movement of
the waves will be vertical to the ground, or vertically polarized. If the same rope had a
similar movement applied horizontally, the waves would be in a horizontal plane, or
horizontally polarized.
A-45. If one uses a whip or other vertically oriented transmitting antenna to propagate
radio waves, the transmitted wave is vertically polarized. Vertically polarized waves
travel along the surface of the Earth. The waves travel vertically because the Earth shortcircuits any horizontal component. If the transmitting antenna is horizontal relative to
the Earth’s surface, the transmitted wave is horizontally polarized. Circular and elliptical
polarization adopt characteristics of both vertical and horizontal polarization, resulting

A-16

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

in a circularly polarized or hybrid waveform. Figure A-9 shows waves traveling in space
polarized in any desired direction.

Figure A-9. Vertical and horizontal polarization
A-46. Some antennas also apply a circular polarization in which the E field rotates the
RF signal circularly, either to the right or to left of the axis of propagation. Instead of
transmitting in just one plane, a circularly polarized antenna transmits in both planes at
once, with a 90-degree phase shift between the two planes. The signal, in this case,
would look like a corkscrew as opposed to a wave. Circular polarization occurs in two
variations—right-hand (clockwise) or left-hand (counterclockwise) circular
polarization. Circular polarization reduces the probability of multipath interference. If
the two plane waves have different amplitudes or the phase difference is other than 90
degrees, the polarization is elliptical (see figure A-10 on page A-18).

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-17

Appendix A

Figure A-10. Right-hand circular and elliptical polarization
A-47. Polarization is sometimes predictable based on an antenna’s geometry. An
antenna’s linear polarization is generally along the direction (as viewed from the
receiving location) of the antenna’s currents. Antennas with horizontal elements, such
as television broadcast, use horizontal polarization. Even when the antenna system is
vertically orientated, such as an array of horizontal dipole antennas, the polarization is
in the horizontal direction, corresponding to the current flow. It is best for a receiving
antenna to match the polarization of the transmitted wave for optimum reception.
A-48. When a vertically polarized antenna tries to communicate with a horizontally
polarized antenna (called cross-polarization), and vice versa, there can be as much as a
30-decibel loss in signal strength—a factor of 1,000. A horizontally aligned signal will
not align with a vertically aligned antenna, so a considerable amount of the transmitted
wave will simply bypass the receiving station.

REFLECTION
A-49. Reflection involves a change in the direction of waves when a wave bounces off
a barrier. When radio waves strike a surface, the surface reflects them in the same
manner as light waves. The Earth’s surface reflects all radio waves. The strength of the
reflected wave depends on the angle of incidence (the angle between the incident ray
and the horizontal surface), type of polarization, frequency, reflecting properties of the
surface, and divergence of the reflected ray. Lower frequencies penetrate the Earth’s
surface more than higher ones. At very low frequencies, radios receive signals below
the surface of the sea. The wavefront of a radio wave is an expanding spherical surface,
all the points of which are in the same phase. A phase change occurs when a wave
reflects from the surface of the Earth. The amount of the change varies with the
conductivity of the Earth (such as soil composition and moisture content) and the

A-18

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

polarization of the wave, reaching a maximum of 180 degrees for a horizontally
polarized wave reflected from seawater (considered to have infinite conductivity).
A-50. Figure A-11 shows a planar wavefront reflected from a smooth surface. As in the
reflection of light, the angle of incidence equals the angle of reflection. However, the
incident wavefront, A–A1, is reversed by the reflecting surface and appears at B–B1—
180 degrees out of phase. The reversal in reflection occurs because point X of the
incident wave reaches the reflecting surface before point Y and reflects to point X1
during the time it takes for point Y, on the wavefront, to move to the point of reflection,
which is Y1.

Figure A-11. Planar wavefront reflection
A-51. When a reflected wave and a direct wave arrive at a receiver, the total signal is
the vector sum of the two. If the signals are in phase, they reinforce each other, producing
a stronger signal. If there is a phase difference, the signals tend to cancel each other, the
cancellation being complete if the phase difference is 180 degrees and the two signals
have the same amplitude. This interaction of waves is wave interference.
A-52. At lower frequencies, there is no practical solution to counter interference caused
in this way. For frequencies in the VHF range (30–300 megahertz) and higher, the
operator can improve the condition by elevating the antenna if the wave is vertically
polarized. Operators reduce interference at higher frequencies by using directional
antennas to avoid reflection.
A-53. Various reflecting surfaces occur in the atmosphere. In higher frequency ranges,
reflections occur from the rain. At the highest radio frequencies, reflections are possible
from clouds, particularly rain clouds. Reflections may even occur at a sharply defined
boundary surface between air masses, as when warm, moist air flows over cold, dry air.
When such a surface is roughly parallel to the surface of the Earth, radio waves may

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-19

Appendix A

travel for greater distances than normal. The principal source of reflection in the
atmosphere is the ionosphere (see paragraphs A-92 through A-104).

REFRACTION
A-54. Refraction involves a change in the direction of waves as a wave passes from one
medium to another. Refraction of radio waves is like that of light waves. The direction
of travel changes as a signal passes from air of one density to that of a different density.
The principal cause of refraction in the atmosphere is the difference in temperature and
pressure occurring at various elevations and within different air masses.
A-55. Although refraction occurs at all frequencies, below 30 megahertz the effect is
small in comparison with ionospheric effects, diffraction, and absorption. At higher
frequencies, refraction in the lower layer of the atmosphere extends the radio horizon to
a distance about 15 percent greater than the visible horizon. The effect is the same as if
the radius of the Earth was about one-third greater than it is and there was no refraction.
A-56. Sometimes the lower portion of the atmosphere becomes stratified. This
stratification results in nonstandard temperature and moisture changes with height. A
horizontal radio duct forms if there is a marked temperature inversion or a sharp decrease
in water vapor content with increased height. Super-refraction is when HF radio waves
travel horizontally within the duct and refract while remaining within the duct, following
the curvature of the Earth over great distances (see figure A-12). Operators achieve
maximum range when both transmitting and receiving antennas are within the duct. The
frequency range affected by ducts varies from about 200 megahertz to more than 1,000
megahertz.

Figure A-12. Super-refraction ducts
A-57. At night, surface ducts may occur over land due to cooling of the surface. At sea,
surface ducts about 15 meters (50 feet) thick may occur at any time in the trade wind
A-20

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

belt—easterly surface winds found in the tropics near the equator. Surface ducts of 30
meters (100 feet) or more in thickness may extend from land out to sea when warm air
from the land flows over the cooler ocean surface. Elevated ducts from about a meter (a
few feet) to more than 300 meters (1,000 feet) in thickness may occur at elevations
between 300 meters (1,000 feet) to about 457 meters (1,500 feet) because of the settling
of a large air mass. Large air masses frequently occur in Southern California and certain
areas of the Pacific Ocean.
A-58. Bending in the horizontal plane occurs when a ground wave crosses a coast at an
oblique angle because of a marked difference in the conducting and reflecting properties
of the land and water over which the wave travels. The effect is the coastal refraction or
land effect.

DIFFRACTION
A-59. Radio wave diffraction refers to distortion when a wave encounters an obstacle.
Diffraction causes a wave to change direction as it passes around a barrier or through an
opening. When a radio wave encounters an obstacle, its energy reflects or absorbs,
causing a shadow beyond the obstacle; however, some energy does enter the shadow
area because of diffraction.
A-60. From the edge of the obstacle, energy radiates into the shadow area and outside
of the area. The latter interacts with energy from other parts of the wavefront, producing
alternate bands in which the secondary emission reinforces, or tends to cancel, the
energy of the primary emission. The practical effect of an obstacle is significantly
reduced signal strength in the shadow area, and a disturbed pattern for a short distance
outside the shadow area, as illustrated in figure A-13.

Figure A-13. Diffraction of radio waves around a solid object

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-21

Appendix A

A-61. The amount of diffraction is inversely proportional to the frequency, being
greatest in the lowest frequency ranges. The lower the frequency, or the longer the
wavelength, the greater the diffraction. Thus, radio waves diffract more than light or
sound waves. In VHF and UHF communications, line of sight creates a shadow area
beyond significant terrain features. In contrast, HF signals will diffract enough to leave
a usable signal in the shadow area as shown in figure A-14.

Figure A-14. Diffraction of radio waves around a terrain feature

ABSORPTION AND SCATTERING
A-62. The amplitude of a radio wave expanding outward through space varies inversely
with distance, weakening with increased distance. The decrease of strength with the
distance of a radio wave is attenuation.
A-63. A wave traveling along the Earth’s surface loses a certain amount of energy due
to absorption Because of this absorption, the remainder of the wavefront tilts downward,
resulting in further absorption. Attenuation is greater over a surface that is a poor
conductor. Relatively little absorption occurs over seawater, which is an excellent
conductor at low frequencies. As a result, low frequency ground waves travel great
distances over water.
A-64. Weather also affects the absorption rates of radio waves. Heavy rainfall can cause
excessive absorption and may reduce the transmitting and receiving range of frequencies
at VHF and above. Attenuation due to fog is determined by the quantity of water per
unit volume and by the size of droplets. Fog is of minor importance for frequencies
below 2 gigahertz but can cause serious attenuation at frequencies above 2 gigahertz.
Extreme cold will cause radio signals to fade or even cease. Vegetation, such as a jungle
environment, also increases absorption and shortens the range of transmissions.

A-22

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

A-65. A skywave (see paragraph A-79) suffers an attenuation loss in its encounter with
the ionosphere. The amount depends upon the height and composition of the ionosphere
as well as the frequency of the radio wave. Maximum ionospheric absorption occurs at
about 1,400 kilohertz.
A-66. In general, atmospheric absorption increases with frequency. It is a problem only
in the super-high frequency and extremely high frequency ranges. At these frequencies,
attenuation increases by scattering due to reflection by oxygen, water vapor, water
droplets, and rain in the atmosphere.

NOISE
A-67. Unwanted signals in a receiver are interference. The intentional production of
such interference to obstruct communication is jamming. Unintentional interference is
noise.
A-68. Noise may originate within the receiver. A humming sound is usually the result
of induction from neighboring circuits carrying alternating current. Poor contacts or
faulty components within the receiver cause irregular crackling or sizzling sounds. Stray
currents in normal components cause some noise which sets the ultimate limit of
sensitivity that used by a receiver. The noise is the same at any frequency.
A-69. Noise originating outside the receiver may be either manmade or natural.
Manmade noises originate in electrical appliances, motor and generator brushes, ignition
systems, and other sources of sparks that transmit electromagnetic signals picked up by
the receiving antenna.
A-70. Atmospheric noise, atmospherics, or static are the discharge of static electricity in
the atmosphere and cause natural noise. A thunderstorm is an example of a cause for
natural noise. An exposed surface may acquire a more substantial charge of static
electricity. Friction from water or solid particles that blow against a surface causes static.
Water droplets striking a surface cause positive and negative charge—one part of the
droplet requires a positive charge and the other a negative charge. These charges transfer
to the surface of the water.
A-71. The charge tends to gather at points and ridges of the conducting surface. When
it accumulates enough to overcome the insulating properties of the atmosphere, it
discharges into the atmosphere. Under suitable conditions, discharge becomes visible.
Atmospheric noise occurs to some extent at all frequencies but decreases as frequency
increases. Above about 30-megahertz, atmospheric noise is not generally a problem.

FREE-SPACE PATH LOSS
A-72. Usually, the major loss of energy is due to the spreading of a wavefront as it
travels away from the transmitter. As the distance increases, the wavefront spreads, like
the beam of a flashlight. The amount of energy contained within any area of the
wavefront decreases as the distance increases. The free-space path loss calculation
excludes environmental effects.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-23

Appendix A

A-73. The amount of energy lost between a transmitter and a receiver is measured in
decibels. The following are typical calculation rules:
 Distance in kilometers multiplied by 10 results in the loss of 20 decibels.
 Distance in kilometers doubled results in the loss of 6 decibels.

MULTIPATH INTERFERENCE
A-74. Multipath interference is a phenomenon whereby a wave from a single source
travels to a receiver by two or more paths and, provided the wave remains coherent, two
or more components of the wave interfere with each other. The waves travel along a
different path and arrive at the receiver out of phase with each other, as shown in figure
A-15. Multipath fading interferes with the desired signal in amplitude and phase.

Figure A-15. Phase shift in multipath interference

GROUND WAVE
A-75. The wave that travels along the surface of the Earth is a ground wave. Ground
wave propagation is the result of electrical characteristics of the Earth and diffraction of
the waves along the curvature of the Earth. The strength of the ground wave at the
receiver depends on the power output and frequency of the transmitter, the shape and
conductivity of Earth along the transmission path, and local weather conditions.

Direct Wave
A-76. A direct wave is a radio wave that travels directly from the transmitting antenna
to the receiving antenna, as depicted in figure A-16 on page A-25. This part of the wave
is limited to line of sight distance between the transmitting and receiving antennas, plus
A-24

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

the small distance added by atmospheric refraction and diffraction of the wave along the
Earth’s curvature. Operators can extend this distance by increasing the height of the
transmitting or receiving antenna, or both.

Figure A-16. Possible routes for ground waves

Ground Reflected Wave
A-77. A ground reflected wave is a radio wave that reaches the receiving antenna after
reflecting from Earth’s surface. Cancellation of the radio signal can occur when the
ground reflected component and the direct wave component arrive at the receiving
antenna simultaneously and are 180 degrees out of phase with each other.

Surface Wave
A-78. The conductivity and dielectric constant of the Earth affect the component of a
ground wave, which is a surface wave. When both the transmitting and receiving
antennas are on, or close to the ground, the direct and ground-reflected components of
the wave tend to cancel out, and the resulting field intensity is principally that of the
surface wave. However, the surface wave component also affects waves above the
Earth’s surface. The effect extends to considerable heights, diminishing in field strength
with increased height. Because the ground absorbs part of its energy, the electric
intensity of the surface wave attenuates at a greater rate. This attenuation depends on the
relative conductivity of the surface over which the wave travels (see table A-4 on page
A-26).

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-25

Appendix A

Table A-4. Propagation characteristics of terrain
Surface Type

Relative Conductivity

Dielectric
Constant

Seawater

Good

80

Large bodies of fresh
water

Fair

80

Wet soil

Fair

30

Flat, loamy soil

Fair

15

Dry, rocky terrain

Poor

7

Desert

Poor

4

Jungle

Unusable

Unusable

SKYWAVE
A-79. A skywave is a wave reaching a receiver by way of the ionosphere. When a radio
wave encounters a particle with an electric charge, the particle vibrates. The vibrating
particle absorbs electromagnetic energy from the radio wave, which it then radiates. The
net effect is a change of polarization and an alteration of the path of the wave.
A-80. The higher the frequency, the greater the ionization density required to refract
radio waves back to the Earth’s surface. The F layer of the ionosphere refracts the higher
frequencies because it is the most highly ionized. The E layer’s varying ionization
creates erratic behavior, refracting medium frequency, HF, and the lower radio waves.
The D layer of the ionosphere, which is the least ionized, primarily absorbs radio waves;
small amounts of refraction are possible but unpredictable.
A-81. At any given time and for each ionized region, there is an upper-frequency limit
at which radio waves transmitted vertically are refracted back to Earth. This limit is the
critical frequency. Radio waves directed vertically at frequencies higher than the critical
frequency pass through the ionized layer out into space (see ray 1 in figure A-17).
Generally, operators direct radio waves used in communications toward the ionosphere,
at an oblique angle called the angle of incidence.
A-82. Radio waves at frequencies above the critical frequency refract back to Earth if
transmitted at angles of incidence smaller than the critical angle. At the critical angle,
and at all angles larger than the critical angle, if the frequency is higher than the critical
frequency, the radio waves will pass through the ionosphere. At frequencies greater than
about 30 megahertz, virtually all the energy penetrates through the ionosphere. As the
frequency increases, the required angle decreases.
A-83. Figure A-17 on page A-27 shows ray 1 entering the ionosphere at an angle that
alters the wave and allows it to pass into space. As the horizontal angle decreases, ray 2
refracts back toward the Earth. As the angle decreases further, such as with ray 3, the
wave returns to Earth at a greater distance from the transmitter.

A-26

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

Figure A-17. Relationship between skip zone, skip distance, and ground
wave
A-84. At angles greater than the critical angle, the wave passes through the ionosphere,
continuing into space. The skip distance is the minimum distance from the transmitter
and receiver. A skip zone is the area where the ground wave extends out for less distance
that the skywave.
A-85. A near-vertical transmission path is a near-vertical incidence skywave. A nearvertical incidence skywave usually uses frequencies less than 10 megahertz and can
operate on the lower sideband or the upper sideband for voice and data communications.
This skywave provides reliable communication ranging from 50–400 kilometers (30–
250 miles) by directing energy at 60–90 degrees, which—provided the frequency or
power is not too high—refracts back toward the Earth’s surface. This near-vertical angle
of transmission reduces the skip zone and can overcome terrain features hampering short
distance and beyond line of sight communications.
A-86. The antenna height in relation to the operating frequency affects the angle at
which transmitted radio waves strike the ionosphere. Operators control this angle of
incidence to achieve the desired area of coverage. Lowering the antenna height will
increase the angle of transmission and provide a broad and even signal pattern within a
region the size of a typical corps’ area of operations. Raising the antenna height lowers
the angle of incidence. Lowering the angle of incidence produces a skip zone (see figure
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-27

Appendix A

A-17). In a corps-sized area of operations, the skip zone is not a desirable condition.
However, low angles of incidence make long-distance communications possible.
A-87. At any given receiver, there is a maximum usable frequency for skywave
communication. Acceptable reception occurs between the maximum usable and lowest
usable frequencies. Within usable frequency range, the operator can use the optimum
frequency for best reception results. The frequency used cannot be too near the
maximum usable frequency, because this frequency fluctuates with changes of intensity
within the ionosphere. During magnetic storms, the ionosphere density decreases. The
maximum usable frequency decreases, and the lowest usable frequency increases. Radio
blackout occurs when there are no usable frequencies.
A-88. Skywave signals reaching a given receiver may arrive by any of several paths, as
shown in figure A-18. A signal having a single reflection is a one-hop signal. A signal
that undergoes two reflections with a ground reflection between is called a two-hop
signal, and so forth. A multi-hop signal undergoes several reflections. The layers at
which the reflections occur are one hop E, two hop F, and so forth.

Figure A-18. Skywave paths
A-89. Because of the different paths and phase changes occurring at each reflection, the
various signals arriving at a receiver have different phase relationships. Since the density
of the ionosphere continually fluctuates, the strength and phase relationships of the
various signals may undergo an almost continuous change. The various signals may
reinforce each other at one moment and cancel each other the next, resulting in
fluctuations in the strength of the total signal received. This phenomenon is a result of
the interaction of components within a single reflected wave or reduced strength due to
changes in the reflecting surface. Ionospheric changes are associated with fluctuations
A-28

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

in the radiation received from the Sun, since this is the principal cause of ionization.
Signals from the F layer are particularly erratic because of the rapidly fluctuating
conditions within the layer itself.
A-90. The maximum distance for a usable, one-hop E signal during the daytime is about
2,400 kilometers (1,500 miles). At this distance, the signal leaves the transmitter in
approximately a horizontal direction. At night, the E layer decreases and becomes
relatively useless for radio transmission. A one-hop F signal can extend out to 4,000
kilometers (2,500 miles). At lower frequency ranges, ground waves extend out for great
distances.
A-91. Polarization error occurs when skywave polarization changes during reflection
from the ionosphere, accompanied by an alteration in the direction of travel of the wave.
Night effect occurs near sunrise and sunset, when rapid changes occur in the ionosphere,
reception becomes erratic, and polarization error is at maximum.
A-92. During daylight hours, the ionosphere is subject to the maximum ultraviolet
output from the Sun, bringing the D, E, F1, and F2 layers to their highest reflection
potential for higher frequencies.
A-93. At night, the composition of the ionospheric layers change—the D layer
disappears, the E layer decreases in strength, and the F1 and F2 layers combine. The
higher frequencies are more likely to penetrate the ionosphere, so operators use lower
frequencies during the night.
A-94. The one exception to the rule concerns operations conducted during the summer.
Due to the proximity of the Sun to the Earth and the more prolonged exposure of the
ionosphere during this season, operators can use higher frequencies during the day and
night. However, one must remember that the actual number of layers, their heights above
the Earth, and the relative intensity of ionization present will vary.

MAXIMUM USABLE FREQUENCY
A-95. The maximum usable frequency is the highest frequency at which a radio wave
will return to Earth at a given distance when using a given ionized layer and a
transmitting antenna with a fixed angle of radiation. The maximum usable frequency is
always higher than the critical frequency because the angle of incidence is less than 90
degrees. As the distance between the transmitter and receiver increases, the maximum
usable frequency will also increase. At certain frequencies, radio waves lose some
energy through absorption by the D layer and a portion of the E layer.
A-96. The total frequency absorption is less, and communication becomes more
satisfactory, as operators use higher frequencies—up to the maximum usable frequency.
The absorption rate is greatest for frequencies ranging from 500 kilohertz–2 megahertz
during the day. At night, the absorption rate decreases for all frequencies. Table A-5 on
page A-30 outlines the general guidance on transmission angles (in degrees) for day and
night communications.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-29

Appendix A

Table A-5. Transmission angle and distance
Distance to F Layer

Transmit
Angle
(degrees)

Kilometers

Miles

Kilometers

Miles

0

3,220

2,000

4,508

2,800

Daytime

Nighttime

5

2,415

1,500

3,703

2,300

10

1,932

1,200

2,898

1,800

15

1,450

900

2,254

1,400

20

1,127

700

1,771

1,100

25

966

600

1,610

1,000

30

725

450

1,328

825

70

153

95

290

180

80

80

50

145

90

90

0

0

0

0

LOWEST USABLE FREQUENCY
A-97. As the frequency of transmission over any skywave path decreases, atmospheric
noise becomes greater and results in an unacceptable signal-to-noise ratio. The
frequency above the point that has too much noise for use is the lowest usable frequency.
Frequencies lower than the lowest usable frequency are too weak for communications.
The lowest usable frequency also depends on the power output of the transmitter and the
transmission distance. When transmission power decreases, the rate of refraction
increases. Waves below the lowest usable frequency refract back to the Earth at a shorter
distance, as indicated in figure A-19 on page A-31. When the lowest usable frequency
is greater than the maximum usable frequency, skywave communications are not
possible.

A-30

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

The Electromagnetic Spectrum

Figure A-19. Refraction of frequency below the lowest usable frequency

REGULAR IONOSPHERIC ACTIVITY
A-98. When planning a communications link, there are regular and irregular ionospheric
activities for consideration. Some variations affect or degrade communications and
cannot be mitigated. Regular ionospheric activities include—
 Diurnal variations.
 Seasonal changes.
 11-year sunspot cycle.
 27-day sunspot cycle.

Diurnal Variations
A-99. Daily daytime and nighttime changes occur in the composition and number of
ionospheric layers. Skip distance varies and absorption increases during the day,
therefore—
 During the day, operators use higher frequencies when ion density of the F2
layer is greater, and frequencies suffer less absorption while passing through
the D layer.
 At night, operators use lower frequencies when the D layer disappears.

Seasonal Changes
A-100. As the position of the Sun moves from one hemisphere to the other with
corresponding seasonal changes, the maximum ion density in the D, E, and F1 layers
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

A-31

Appendix A

shift accordingly. Each change is relatively greater during the summer, raising the virtual
height of the ionosphere’s F2 layer considerably in summer. During winter, the ion
density decreases (peaking at noon) and the virtual height of the F2 layer decreases.

Twenty-Seven-Day Sunspot Cycle
A-101. This cycle is another sunspot variation resulting from the rotation of the sun on
its axis. As the number of sunspots changes from day to day, with solar rotation, the
formation of new spots, or the disappearance of old ones on the visible part of the sun,
absorption in the D layer also changes. Similar changes occur in the E-layer critical
frequency. These variations exhibit wide geographic ranges. Although fluctuations in
F2 layer critical frequencies from day to day are higher than for any other layer, these
fluctuations are not generally of a worldwide character. Because of the variability of the
F2 layer, precise predictions of its critical frequencies are not possible for individual
days. However, long-term trends and geographical distribution can be projected in
advance.

IRREGULAR IONOSPHERIC ACTIVITY
A-102. Irregular ionospheric activity is not accurately predictable. Irregular
ionospheric activities include sporadic E, sudden ionospheric disturbance (Dellinger
fade), and ionospheric storms.

Sporadic E
A-103. An excessively ionized E layer obscures reflections returning from the higher
layers. This phenomenon causes unexpected propagation of a signal hundreds of miles
beyond the normal range. This effect, called sporadic E, frequently occurs during the
day and night. However, there is a seasonal pattern, peaking during the summer in both
hemispheres with a much smaller peak in winter. An occurrence of sporadic E is not
usually simultaneous at all stations. Operators use lower frequencies to achieve shorthop communications under these conditions.

Ionospheric Storms
A-104. Ionospheric storms usually accompany magnetic disturbances about 18 hours
after a sudden ionospheric disturbance, can last for several hours—up to a couple of
days—and may extend over a large portion of the Earth. The critical frequencies are
much lower than normal because of a decrease in ion density and the virtual heights of
the layers much greater so that maximum usable frequencies are much lower than
normal. It is often necessary to lower the working frequency to maintain
communications during one of these storms. There is also increased absorption of radio
waves during storms. Ionospheric storms are most severe at higher latitudes and
decrease in intensity toward the equator.

A-32

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Appendix B

Jamming Calculations
This appendix discusses jamming formula symbols, the minimum
jammer power output, and the maximum jammer distance.

FORMULA SYMBOLS
B-1. EW professionals use jamming formulas to determine the jamming power output
and jammer distance to a target. This information enables EW personnel to understand
the technical aspects of jamming and establishes the basis for advising the commander
on jamming mission characteristics and effects. Mathematical formulas use the symbols
in table B-1. Each symbol identifies a unit of measurement used for accurate
calculations.
Table B-1. Formula symbols
Symbol

Use of

Pj

Minimum amount of jammer power output required in watts (read on
power output meter of the jammer).

Pt

Power output of the enemy transmitter in watts.

Hj

Elevation of the jammer location above sea level in feet (does not
include antenna height or length).

Ht

Elevation of the enemy transmitter location above the sea level.

Dj

Jammer location-to-target receiver location distance in kilometers.

Dt

Enemy transmitter location-to-target receiver location distance in
kilometers.

K

Frequency modulation jammer tuning accuracy factor.

N

Terrain and ground factors:
5 = Very rugged terrain (rocky, mountainous or desert) with poor
ground conductivity.
4 = Moderately rugged terrain (rolling to high hills, forests) with fair to
good ground conductivity.
3 = Rolling hills (farmland type terrain) with good ground conductivity.
2 = Level terrain (over water, sea, lakes, and ponds) with good ground
conductivity.

B-2. Technical intelligence publications and manuals contain friendly equipment and
threat system specifications. The G-2 or S-2 provides the electromagnetic order of battle
for threat systems. It is necessary to estimate the electromagnetic order of battle when
no information is available.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

B-1

Appendix B

FORMULA 1—MINIMUM JAMMER POWER OUTPUT
B-3. When the difference between Ht and Hj is less than 10 meters, they are considered
the same elevation. When dividing Dj by Dt, include the second decimal place and do
not round off. Also, note that this is for a jammer using a whip antenna; divide the result
by 2 for a log periodic array antenna. Figure B-1 illustrates a sample calculation.

Figure B-1. Example minimum jammer power output calculations

FORMULA 2—MAXIMUM JAMMER DISTANCE
B-4. This formula is determine the maximum distance of jamming using a whip
antenna from the target receiver. For the log periodic array antenna, the Pj factor is
doubled. Figure B-2 on page B-3 shows the maximum jammer distance calculation.

B-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Jamming Calculations

Figure B-2. Example maximum jammer distance calculation

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

B-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix C

Electromagnetic Warfare Equipment and
Systems
Units use program of record systems and available joint
electromagnetic warfare resources to support the commander’s
intent. This appendix includes characteristics of Army and joint
equipment that is useful in electromagnetic warfare planning.

ARMY
C-1. The Army is currently increasing its EW capabilities. It maintains several EW
systems in its inventory. When requested, the Army provides these capabilities to
formations at echelons corps and below.

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT TOOL
C-2. The CEWO uses the EWPMT to visualize and model the behavior of the
electromagnetic spectrum in the area of operations before executing an EW mission.
The CEWO also shares the view of the electromagnetic environment with the staff. The
CEWO uses the EWPMT in conjunction with the electromagnetic order of battle
provided by the G-2 or S-2 staff to analyze likely threat EW courses of action. The
EWPMT provides an automated platform that enables the CEWO to—
 Provide input to the common operational picture.
 Display sensor information from deployed EW and SIGINT assets
including—

Detected emitters.

Plotted lines of bearing.

Analysis of circular error probable ellipse.
 Conduct mission planning and rehearsals.
 Manage EW assets.
 Model and visualize how the electromagnetic environment will respond to
friendly and enemy EW activities.
C-3. The CEMA section coordinates with the G-6 or S-6 network management
technician for network configurations such as the specified Internet protocol address and
computer name. The network management technician ensures the EWPMT has
connectivity with the data distribution service. The data distribution service facilitates
near real-time data sharing. The connectivity to the data distribution service allows the
EWPMT to integrate with other command post information systems to publish and
subscribe to the organization’s common operational picture and assist in achieving
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

C-1

Appendix C

greater situational understanding. Map data for the EWPMT is available from the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
C-4. The EWPMT provides situational awareness tools to enable the CEWO or
spectrum manager’s planning, execution, and understanding of the battlespace.
Knowing what is taking place in the electromagnetic spectrum around the unit’s area of
operations can give Soldiers the initiative and allow actions inside the threat decision
cycle. The EWPMT’s comprehensive spectrum situational awareness view
automatically creates and updates from tactical data and operational situational
awareness data received from intelligence cells, mission command information systems,
and other external sources. This data may be real-time, (such as symbol data or ongoing
target engagements), near real-time (such as logistic reports and some forms of
intelligence data) or non-real-time (such as civil infrastructure or facility database).
Normally, situational awareness data is received digitally and automatically populates
the situational awareness view, but the EWPMT operator can also enter situational
awareness data manually.
C-5. The EWPMT situational awareness view provides a comprehensive view of the
electromagnetic operational environment, including—
 Enemy units and symbols—emitter information, such as range and lines of
bearing, including actual locations of units through intelligence analysis.
 Map data (images, raster background, and so forth).
 Friendly units and symbols—

Emitter information, such as range and lines of bearing.

Status information from the squad level through division and joint
commands.

EW frequency fratricide predictions from planned and active
electromagnetic attack activities.

Detailed unit status for organic EW assets in the area of operations.
 Allied and neutral units—

Symbols and emitter information.

EW frequency fratricide predictions from planned or active
electromagnetic attack activities.
 Control graphics—

EW threats categorized as planned, actively or previously engaged,
suspect, and others, with effectivity predictions against those targets for
planned and active EW operations.

Military and civil infrastructure such as facilities, bridges, and key terrain
features.

Significant events such as civil unrest, bombings, arson, and riots.
 Spot reports, including enemy sightings and other relevant information.
 Weather information.

C-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Equipment and Systems

COUNTER RADIO-CONTROLLED IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE SYSTEMS
C-6. Although the Army has the largest inventory, all U.S. ground forces use CREW
systems to prevent improvised explosive device detonation by RF energy. These forces
maintain mounted, dismounted, and fixed-site CREW capabilities to protect personnel
and equipment. As technology improves, the capabilities of some systems have
progressed beyond mere jamming to information collection and direction finding. The
systems currently in use by U.S. forces and multinational partners include—
 Mounted—

AN/VLQ-12 Duke V2/V3 (Army).

Symphony (coalition).

EGON Active/Reactive Counter-IED System (special operations forces).
 Dismounted—

AN/PLT-5 THOR II (explosive ordnance disposal).

Guardian H3 (North Atlantic Treaty Organization).

MODI (conventional and non-conventional).
C-7. Jammers may function in an active or reactive mode. Active mode means the
jammer continuously emits a signal to block a preprogrammed frequency. Active mode
is effective against multiple low-power signals but is vulnerable to threat direction
finding equipment and may not be effective against high-power signals. Reactive
jammers search for specific signals and then emit the jamming signal. Reactive jammers
are less vulnerable to direction finding and are excellent against high-power signals.

AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT
C-8. Aircraft survivability equipment aims to reduce aircraft vulnerability, thus
allowing aircrews to accomplish their immediate missions and survive. Army aviation
maintains a suite of aircraft survivability equipment that provides electromagnetic
protection against threat spectrum-enabled weapon systems (detection, tracking, and
targeting). This protection can include RF warning and countermeasures systems,
common missile warning systems, information requirement countermeasures systems,
and laser detection and countermeasure systems.

INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS
C-9. The intelligence community operates and maintains systems capable of providing
electromagnetic support information. Usually, the information is collected, consolidated
as data, and further analyzed to become SIGINT, but the additional capability can also
provide combat information for electromagnetic support purposes. The systems and
operators must use the correct authorities and procedures when conducting SIGINT or
electromagnetic support, without confusing classifications or missions.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

C-3

Appendix C

Guardrail Common Sensor
C-10. The Guardrail Common Sensor is a corps-level, airborne SIGINT collection and
locating system. It provides tactical commanders with near real-time targeting
information. Key features include—
 Integrated communications intelligence and electromagnetic intelligence
reporting.
 Enhanced signal classification and recognition.
 Near real-time direction finding.
C-11. The Guardrail Common Sensor shares technology with the ground-based
common sensor, airborne reconnaissance-low, and other joint systems.

Prophet Enhanced
C-12. Prophet Enhanced is a ground-based tactical SIGINT and electromagnetic support
sensor system. This system contributes to force protection, target development, and
situational awareness through SIGINT support to units.

SPECTRUM TOOLS
C-13. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager assists the CEMA section in frequency
assignment for EW activities. The G-6 or S-6 spectrum manager requests frequency
resources through Spectrum XXI or by liaising with the combatant command or the hostnation spectrum authorities.
C-14. The End-to-End Supportability System is a web application that facilitates
warfighter deployment and communications by providing worldwide visibility of hostnation supportability of spectrum-dependent devices. The End-to-End Supportability
System automates the distribution of host-nation coordination requests, allowing
combatant command submission for host-nation supportability and reducing time
requirements for managing the host-nation spectrum authorization process. The design
of the database provides informed decision making concerning frequency bands. It
enables managers to determine the historical spectrum supportability of similar systems.

NAVY
C-15. The Navy’s primary airborne EW platform is the EA-18G Growler. The Navy
also maintains both surface and subsurface EW shipboard systems for offensive and
defensive missions to support the fleet.
C-16. The EA-18G Growler’s general capabilities include—
 Suppression of enemy air defenses. The EA-18G Growler counters enemy air
defenses using both reactive and preemptive jamming techniques.
 Standoff and escort jamming.
 Integrated air and ground airborne electromagnetic attack.

C-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Electromagnetic Warfare Equipment and Systems



Self-protect and time-critical strike support. With its active electronically
scanned array radar, digital data links, and air-to-air missiles, the EA-18G
Growler can protect itself and effectively identify and prosecute targets.

C-17. The EA-18G Growler’s airborne electromagnetic attack capabilities are—
 Effectiveness against any surface-to-air threat.
 Ability to sense and locate threats.
 Uninterrupted communications during jamming operations.

AIR FORCE
C-18. The Air Force has two primary EW platforms:
 EC-130H Compass Call.
 RC-135V/W Rivet Joint.

EC-130H COMPASS CALL
C-19. The EC-130H Compass Call is an airborne tactical EW system. The EC-130H
delivers degrade and disrupt effects on threat communications systems and radars used
to support threat air, ground, and maritime operations, and many modern commercial
communications systems a threat might employ.

RC-135V/W RIVET JOINT
C-20. The RC-135V/W Rivet Joint is a combatant command-level surveillance asset
that responds to strategic taskings. The RC-135V/W Rivet Joint is equipped with
information gathering equipment that enables monitoring of threat electromagnetic
activity. The aircraft has secure communications using HF, VHF and UHF radios and
satellite communications.

MARINE CORPS
C-21. The Marine Corps uses a variety of EW systems and supporting systems to
execute their tactical EW missions. Like the other Services, equipment and techniques
change based on threat and technology.

AN/ULQ-19(V)2 ELECTRONIC ATTACK SET
C-22. The AN/ULQ-19(V)2 electronic attack set allows operators to conduct spot or
sweep jamming of single-channel voice or data signals operating in the standard military
frequency range of 20–79.975 megahertz from selected mobile platforms—for example,
high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles, mobile electromagnetic warfare support
system, and helicopters. When employed as a tactical, general purpose, low-VHF
jamming system, the AN/ULQ-19(V)2 has a 250-watt RF linear amplifier that produces
a nominal 200 watts effective radiated power using a standard omnidirectional whip
antenna. To conduct jamming, the system must operate with an unobstructed signal line
of sight to the targeted communications transceiver.
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

C-5

Appendix C

AN/MLQ-36 MOBILE ELECTRONIC WARFARE SUPPORT SYSTEM
C-23. The AN/MLQ-36 Mobile Electronic Warfare Support System provides a
multifunctional capability that provides limited armor protection for SIGINT and EW
operators. This equipment can provide SIGINT and EW support to highly mobile
military operations in urban terrain where maneuver and armor protection are critical.
The AN/MLQ-36 consists of a signals intercept system, a radio direction finding system,
an electromagnetic attack system, a secure communications system, and an intercom
system installed in a logistic variant of the light armored vehicle. The AN/MLQ-36A
Mobile Electromagnetic Warfare Support System product improvement program is an
advanced SIGINT and EW system integrated into a light armored vehicle.
C-24. The Mobile Electromagnetic Warfare Support System product improvement
program provides a total replacement of the EW mission equipment in the AN/MLQ-36
Mobile Electromagnetic Warfare Support System. The Mobile Electromagnetic Warfare
Support System product improvement program provides the ability to detect and
evaluate enemy communications emissions, detect, and categorize enemy
noncommunications emissions, determine lines of bearing, and degrade enemy tactical
radio communications during expeditionary operations. When mission-configured and
working cooperatively with other Mobile Electromagnetic Warfare Support System
product improvement program platforms, the common suite of equipment can also
provide precision location of battlefield emitters. The system has an automated tasking
and reporting data link available to other Marine air-ground task force assets such as the
AN/TSQ-130 technical control and analysis center product improvement program. The
Mobile Electromagnetic Warfare Support System product improvement program and its
future enhancements will provide the capability to exploit new and sophisticated enemy
electromagnetic emissions and conduct electromagnetic attack in support of existing and
planned national, theater, fleet, and Marine air-ground task force SIGINT and EW
operations.

C-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Appendix D

Forms, Reports, and Messages
Electromagnetic warfare professionals use several different forms,
reports, and messages in the performance of their duties. The
common forms and formats are included in this appendix.

ELECTROMAGNETIC ATTACK REQUEST FORMAT
D-1. Electromagnetic attack requests fall within three operational categories:
preplanned, preplanned on-call, and immediate. The CEWO enters requests for
electromagnetic attack effects through the targeting working group using the
electromagnetic attack request format (see table D-1 on page D-2). Requesting
preplanned electromagnetic attack support is similar to requesting close air support.
Requests for electromagnetic attack effects use Department of Defense Form 1972
(Joint Tactical Air Strike Request) (see paragraph D-2) with specific electromagnetic
attack effects requests attached in an electromagnetic attack request format.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

D-1

Appendix D

Table D-1. Electromagnetic attack request format
Requesting Major Support Command:
Requesting Unit:
Contact information: This person will be responsible to verify
approved request before the mission starts and to relay the information
to the executing unit.
Joint Tactical Air Strike Request Number: Enter the joint tactical air
strike request number for submission with the electromagnetic attack
request format.
Concept of Operations: Describe the concept of operations. This will
include the objective, forces used, timeline of the mission, and
coordination efforts required for mission success. Relate the impact of
mission success to specific objectives for the integrated tasking order.
Electromagnetic Attack Concept of Operations: Define the desired
effect(s) and timeline.
CEASE BUZZER Procedures: This will be in accordance with theater
special instructions. Provide frequency to communicate between the
jamming control authority and electromagnetic attack asset. VHF and
UHF are the primary means to talk to a supporting aircraft. If unable to
establish communications, consider using another asset to relay
information. Some aircraft may be internet relay chat capable.

Friendly Frequency Use for Operation:
Target Communication
System(s) to be
Jammed or Denied:

Target requested—list the type and
frequency, if known.
Intelligence assessment (required—do not
copy and paste frequencies from one day to
the next without intelligence validation
assessment).
Target location in latitude and longitude or
military grid reference system.

Jamming date-time group(s): from and to, in Zulu Time (preferred):
Type of Electromagnetic Attack Requested: preplanned and
scheduled; on-call:
LEGEND:
VHF

very high frequency

UHF

ultrahigh frequency

JOINT TACTICAL AIR STRIKE REQUEST
D-2. CEWOs use Department of Defense Form 1972 to request airborne
electromagnetic attack. The JTAR specifies the effects desired using airborne and spacebased platforms (see figure D-1 on page D-3). The CEWO’s completion of the JTAR is
critical to helping air planners in the combat air operations center select the aircraft and
payload to support the JTAR.
D-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Forms, Reports, and Messages

D-3. To ensure the air component achieves the effects desired by the ground
component, the JTAR must clearly describe desired effects in detail. Most organizations
require the submission of a JTAR and an electromagnetic attack request format together.
The JTAR and electromagnetic attack request format complement each other. Once
filled with operational information, the Department of Defense Form 1972 becomes
classified SECRET. This sample is unclassified.

Figure D-1. Sample joint tactical air strike request
30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

D-3

Appendix D

JOINT SPECTRUM INTERFERENCE RESOLUTION
D-4. Operators report electromagnetic interference using the JSIR-Online Portal. The
JSIR-Online Portal is located on the SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network. Unit
standard operating procedures may also require JSIR approval from the chain of
command using the JSIR format in figure D-2.
Sharing information contained in the completed JSIR report helps the unit build
situational understanding of the threat and aids in the development of mitigation
procedures. The report preparer provides a copy of the completed form to the CEWO,
spectrum manager, and G-6 or S-6 staff.

Figure D-2. Joint spectrum interference resolution report instructions

D-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Forms, Reports, and Messages

STOP JAMMING MESSAGE
D-5. To stop jamming, the CEWO submits a stop jamming message as illustrated in
figure D-3.

Figure D-3. Stop jamming message instructions

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE FREQUENCY
DECONFLICTION MESSAGE
D-6. The CEWO completes an EW frequency deconfliction message to identify and
categorize frequencies to be utilized by friendly forces, and to prevent frequency
fratricide (see figure D-4 on page D-6).

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

D-5

Appendix D

Figure D-4. Electromagnetic warfare frequency deconfliction message
instructions

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE MISSION SUMMARY
D-7. The CEWO maintains a record of EW missions. The record is the EW mission
summary (see figure D-5 beginning on page D-7).

D-6

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Forms, Reports, and Messages

Figure D-5. Electromagnetic warfare mission summary

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

D-7

Appendix D

Figure D-5. Electromagnetic warfare mission summary (continued)

ELECTROMAGNETIC WARFARE TASKING MESSAGE
D-8. The CEWO uses the EW tasking message format to task an EW asset to provide
a requested effect (see figure D-6 beginning on page D-9).

D-8

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Forms, Reports, and Messages

Figure D-6. Electromagnetic warfare tasking message

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

D-9

Appendix D

Figure D-6. Electromagnetic warfare tasking message (continued)

D-10

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint
definitions. Where Army and joint definitions differ, (Army)
precedes the definition. ATP 3-12.3 is not the proponent for any
Army terms. The proponent publication for joint and Army terms is
listed in parentheses after the definition.

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADP

Army doctrine publication

ATP

Army techniques publication

CEMA

cyberspace electromagnetic activities

CEWO

cyber electromagnetic warfare officer

CJCSI

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction

CJCSM

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff manual

CREW

counter radio-controlled improvised explosive device
electromagnetic warfare

EMCON
EW
EWPMT

emission control
electromagnetic warfare
Electromagnetic Warfare Planning and Management Tool

FM

field manual; frequency modulation

G-2

assistant chief of staff, intelligence

G-3

assistant chief of staff, operations

G-6

assistant chief of staff, signal

HF

high frequency

IEEE

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

J-3

operations directorate of a joint staff

J-6

communications system directorate of a joint staff

JP

joint publication

JRFL

joint restricted frequency list

JSIR

joint spectrum interference resolution

JTAR

joint tactical airstrike request

MDMP

military decision-making process

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

Glossary-1

Glossary

METT-TC (I)

mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support
available, time available, civil considerations, and
informational considerations

RF

radio frequency

S-2

battalion or brigade intelligence staff officer

S-3

battalion or brigade operations staff officer

S-6

battalion or brigade signal staff officer

SIGINT

signals intelligence

UHF

ultrahigh frequency

VHF

very high frequency

SECTION II – TERMS
assessment
The determination of the progress toward accomplishing a task, creating a
condition, or achieving an objective. (JP 3-0)
chaff
Radar confusion reflectors, consisting of thin, narrow metallic strips of various
lengths and frequency responses, which are used to reflect echoes for confusion
purposes. (JP 3-85)
countermeasures
That form of military science that, by the employment of devices and/or
techniques, has as its objective the impairment of the operational effectiveness of
enemy activity. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic attack
Division of electromagnetic warfare involving the use of electromagnetic energy,
directed energy, or antiradiation weapons to attack personnel, facilities, or
equipment with the intent of degrading, neutralizing, or destroying enemy combat
capability and is considered a form of fires. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic compatibility
The ability of systems, equipment, and devices that use the electromagnetic
spectrum to operate in their intended environments without causing or suffering
unacceptable or unintentional degradation because of electromagnetic radiation or
response. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic environment
The resulting product of the power and time distribution, in various frequency
ranges, of the radiated or conducted electromagnetic emission levels encountered
by a military force, system, or platform when performing its assigned mission in
its intended operational environment. (JP 3-85)

Glossary-2

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Glossary

electromagnetic hardening
Action taken to protect personnel, facilities, and/or equipment by blanking,
filtering, attenuating, grounding, bonding, and/or shielding against undesirable
effects of electromagnetic energy. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic masking
The controlled radiation of electromagnetic energy on friendly frequencies in a
manner to protect the emissions of friendly communications and electronic
systems against enemy electromagnetic support measures/signals intelligence
without significantly degrading the operation of friendly systems. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic interference
Any electromagnetic disturbance, induced intentionally or unintentionally, that
interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits the effective performance of
electromagnetic spectrum-dependent systems and electrical equipment. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic intrusion
The intentional insertion of electromagnetic energy into transmission paths in any
manner, with the objective of deceiving operators or of causing confusion.
(JP 3-85)
electromagnetic jamming
The deliberate radiation, reradiation, or reflection of electromagnetic energy for
the purpose of preventing or reducing an enemy’s effective use of the
electromagnetic spectrum, with the intent of degrading or neutralizing the
enemy’s combat capability. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic protection
Division of electromagnetic warfare involving actions taken to protect personnel,
facilities, and equipment from any effects of friendly or enemy use of the
electromagnetic spectrum that degrade, neutralize, or destroy friendly combat
capability. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic pulse
A strong burst of electromagnetic radiation caused by a nuclear explosion, energy
weapon, or by natural phenomenon, that may couple with electrical or electronic
systems to produce damaging current and voltage surges. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic reconnaissance
The detection, location, identification, and evaluation of foreign electromagnetic
radiations. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic security
The protection resulting from all measures designed to deny unauthorized persons
information of value that might be derived from their interception and study of
noncommunications electromagnetic radiations, (e.g., radar). (JP 3-85)

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

Glossary-3

Glossary

electromagnetic support
A division of electromagnetic warfare involving actions tasked by, or under direct
control of, an operational commander to search for, intercept, identify, and locate
or localize sources of intentional and unintentional radiated electromagnetic
energy for the purpose of immediate threat recognition, targeting, planning and
conduct of future operations. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic warfare
Military action involving the use of electromagnetic and directed energy to control
the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy. Also called EW. (JP 3-85)
electromagnetic warfare reprogramming
The deliberate alteration or modification of electromagnetic warfare or target
sensing systems, or the tactics and procedures that employ them, in response to
validated changes in equipment, tactics, or the electromagnetic environment.
(JP 3-85)
emission control
The selective and controlled use of electromagnetic, acoustic, or other emitters to
optimize command and control capabilities while minimizing, for operations
security: a. detection by enemy sensors; b. mutual interference among friendly
systems; and/or c. enemy interference with the ability to execute a military
deception plan. Also called EMCON. (JP 3-85)
execution
The act of putting a plan into action by applying combat power to accomplish the
mission and adjusting operations based on changes in the situation (ADP 5-0)
frequency deconfliction
A systematic management procedure to coordinate the use of the electromagnetic
spectrum for operations, communications, and intelligence functions. (JP 3-85)
high-payoff target
A target whose loss to the enemy will significantly contribute to the success of the
friendly course of action. (JP 3-60)
line of sight
The unobstructed path from a Soldier’s weapon, weapon sight, electronic sending
and receiving antennas, or piece of reconnaissance equipment from one point to
another. (ATP 2-01.3)
military decision-making process
An iterative planning methodology to understand the situation and mission,
develop a course of action, and produce an operation plan or order. Also called
MDMP. (ADP 5-0)
preparation
Those activities performed by units and Soldiers to improve their ability to
execute an operation (ADP 5-0)

Glossary-4

ATP 3-12.3

30 January 2023

Glossary

planning
The art and science of understanding a situation, envisioning a desired future, and
determining effective ways to bring that future about (ADP 5-0)
spectrum management operations
The interrelated functions of spectrum management, frequency assignment, host
nation coordination, and policy that together enable the planning, management,
and execution of operations within the electromagnetic operational environment
during all phases of military operations. (FM 6-02)
running estimate
The continuous assessment of the current situation used to determine if the current
operation is proceeding according to the commander’s intent and if planned future
operations are supportable. (ADP 5-0)
targeting
The process of selecting and prioritizing targets and matching the appropriate
response to them, considering operational requirements and capabilities. (JP 3-0)
wartime reserve modes
Characteristics and operating procedures of sensor, communications, navigation
aids, threat recognition, weapons, and countermeasures systems that will
contribute to military effectiveness if unknown to or misunderstood by opposing
commanders before they are used, but could be exploited or neutralized if known
in advance. (JP 3-85)

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

Glossary-5

This page intentionally left blank.

References
+All websites accessed on 25 June 2024.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
+DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms.
2024.
+FM 1-02.1. Operational Terms. 28 February 2024.
+FM 1-02.2. Military Symbols. 28 February 2024.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
These documents contain relevant supplemental information.

JOINT AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PUBLICATIONS
Most joint publications are available online: https://www.jcs.mil/doctrine.
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff publications are available online:
https://www.jcs.mil/library/
CJCSM 3320.02E. Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR) Procedures. 20
May 2022.
JP 3-0. Joint Campaigns and Operations. 18 June 2022.
JP 3-09.3. Close Air Support. 10 June 2019.
JP 3-60. Joint Targeting. 28 September 2018.
JP 3-85. Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations. 22 May 2020.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil.
ADP 5-0. The Operations Process. 31 July 2019.
ADP 6-22. Army Leadership and the Profession. 31 July 2019.
+ATP 1-02.1/MCRP 3-30B.1/NTTP 6-02.1/AFTTP 3-2.5. Multi-Service Tactics,
Techniques, and Procedures for Multi-Service Brevity Codes. 07 March
2023.
ATP 2-01.3. Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield. 01 March 2019.
ATP 3-09.32/MCRP 3-31.6/NTTP 3-09.2/AFTTP 3-2.6. Multi-Service Tactics,
Techniques, and Procedures for the Joint Application of Firepower
(JFIRE). 29 November 2023.
202

ATP 3-12.3

References-1

References

ATP 5-19. Risk Management. 9 November 2021.
ATP 6-02.70. Techniques for Spectrum Management Operations. 16 October
2019.
FM 2-0. Intelligence. 01 October 2023.
FM 3-0. Operations. 1 October 2022
FM 3-12. Cyberspace Operations and Electromagnetic Warfare. 24 August 2021.
+FM 3-60 Army Targeting. 11 August 2023.
FM 6-0. Commander and Staff Organization and Operations. 16 May 2022.
FM 6-02. Signal Support to Operations. 13 September 2019.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C. The Commander’s Handbook on the Law of Land
Warfare. 7 August 2019.

OTHER PUBLICATIONS
Unless otherwise indicated, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
publications are available on the IEEE Standards Association Website:
https://standards.ieee.org.
IEEE C95.1-2019/Cor 2-2020 – IEEE Standard for Safety Levels with Respect to
Human Exposure to Electric, Magnetic, and Electromagnetic Fields, 0
Hz to 300 GHz – Corrigenda 2. 17 January 2024.
IEEE C95.6-2002 – IEEE Standard for Safety Levels with Respect to Human
Exposure to Electromagnetic Fields, 0-3 kHz. 17 January 2024.
IEEE C95.7-2014 – IEEE Recommended Practice for Radio Frequency Safety
Programs, 3 kHz to 300 GHz. 10 April 2024.

WEBSITES
End-to-End Supportability System Website.
https://storefront.disa.mil/kinetic/disa/service-catalog#/forms/hostnation-spectrum-worldwide-database-online-hnswdo. (Copy and paste
link into browser address bar.) (Requires DOD-approved certificate login
and user account registration.)
Cyber Lessons and Best Practices Website. https://F\EHUFRHORVVRQVOHDUQHGDUP\PLO.
(Requires DOD-approved certificate login required.)

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, Department of the Army forms are available on the
Army Publishing Directorate Website: https://armypubs.army.mil.
Department of the Army Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and
Blank Forms.
References-2

ATP 3-12.3

202

References

Unless otherwise indicated, Department of Defense forms are available online:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/.
Department of Defense Form 1494. Application for Equipment Frequency
Allocation.
Department of Defense Form 1972. Joint Tactical Air Strike Request.

RECOMMENDED READINGS
CJCSI 3320.02F. Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution. 8 March 2013.
CJCSM 3320.01C. Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Management Operations in
the Electromagnetic Operational Environment. 14 December 2012,
Directive current as of 5 February 2019.

30 January 2023

ATP 3-12.3

References-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.

A
absorption, A-62

B
battle drills, 5-39

C
close air support, 4-28
countermeasures, 4-10
CREW. See counter
radio-controlled
improvised explosive
device
electromagnetic
warfare

D
defensive
electromagnetic
attack, 4-52
diffraction, A-59
direction finding, 6-12

E
electromagnetic attack
airborne, 4-30
considerations, 4-5
executing, 4-27
planning, 4-1
preparing, 4-20
electromagnetic attack
control authority, 2-10
electromagnetic attack
request format, 4-21,
D-1

30 January 2023

electromagnetic
compatibility, 5-20
electromagnetic
deception, 4-11
electromagnetic
environment, 1-9
electromagnetic
environment survey,
6-5
electromagnetic
hardening, 5-18
electromagnetic
interference, 5-33
electromagnetic
intrusion, 4-51
electromagnetic
jamming, 4-42, 5-42
formulas, B-1
electromagnetic
protection
planning, 5-1
remedial, 5-56
responsibilities, 5-5
electromagnetic pulse,
4-9
electromagnetic
reconnaissance, 6-10
electromagnetic
spectrum
atmospheric effects,
A-13
radio bands, A-1
electromagnetic
spectrum

ATP 3-12.3

coordinating
authority, 2-12
electromagnetic support
planning, 6-1
preparing, 6-4
electromagnetic warfare
airborne, 3-23, 3-40
assessment, 4-65
configurations, 3-36
decide, 4-61
deliver, 4-64
detect, 4-63
execution, 3-75
fixed-site, 3-39
manpack, 3-37
mission summary, D7
planning, 3-7, 3-44
preparation, 3-63
reprogramming, 3-24
tasking message, D8
vehicle-mounted, 338
visualization, 3-25
electromagnetic warfare
equipment
Air Force, C-18
Army, C-1
Marine Corps, C-21
Navy, C-15
EMCON. See emission
control
emission control, 5-21

F
frequencies
Index-1

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.

guarded, 3-51
protected, 3-50
taboo, 3-49
frequency deconfliction
message, D-6

G
ground wave, A-75

H
hazards of
electromagnetic
radiation, 3-13

J
joint tactical air strike
request, D-2

L
lowest usable
frequency, A-97

M
maximum usable
frequency, A-95
measures of
effectiveness, 3-82
measures of
performance, 3-82
military decision-making
process, 3-1
multipath interference,
A-74

Index-2

noise, radio frequency,
A-67

roles and
responsibilities, 2-1
running estimate, 3-17

P

S

N

path loss, A-72
polarization, A-43

R
reflection, 6-30, A-49
refraction, 6-29, A-54
responsibilities
cyber
electromagnetic
warfare officer, 2-5
electromagnetic
warfare
nonncommissione
d officer, 2-7
electromagnetic
warfare
technician, 2-6
G-2 or S-2 staff, 2-14
G-3 or S-3 staff, 2-15
G-6 or S-6 staff, 2-16
information
advantage staff, 217
spectrum manager,
2-8
staff judge advocate,
2-18

ATP 3-12.3

scatter, 6-28
scattering, A-62
signals intelligence
integration, 3-70
signal-to-jamming ratio,
5-47
skywave, A-79
spectrum management
operations, 5-15
stop jamming message,
D-5
sunspot cycles, A-101

T
targeting working group,
3-59
Terrain masking, 5-29
threat warning, 6-11

W
wartime reserve modes,
5-32
wave propagation, A-36
roles and
responsibilities, 2-1
running estimate, 3-4

30 January 2023

3 23
30 January 2023

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

J
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

MARK F. AVERILL
Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army

DISTRIBUTION:
electronic media only (EMO).

Distributed in

This page intentionally left blank.

PIN: 20

22 002

