ATP 4-90
BRIGADE SUPPORT BATTALION
JANUARY 2026

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
This publication supersedes ATP 4-90, dated 18 June 2020.

HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

Chapter 1

Brigade Support Battalion
This chapter introduces the brigade support battalion as a combat enabler. It discusses the
organization of brigade support battalions supporting maneuver brigades, combat aviation
brigades, field artillery brigades, and multi-domain task forces.

ROLE, CORE COMPETENCIES, AND FUNCTIONS
1-1. The brigade support battalion (BSB) supports the brigade formations that constitute most of the close
combat capability in the Army. The brigade’s area of operations is expansive, and its missions are diverse.
The BSB and its subordinate companies normally operate within the close area of the operational framework,
closer to the forward line of troops than any other battalion-sized sustainment organization. This places the
BSB in operational environments (OEs) that are highly lethal, rapidly changing, and extremely demanding.
These OEs require frequent movement, strong protection, and perseverance. Success will rely on disciplined
leadership founded on mission command, well-trained troops that display strong resilience, and closely
synchronized staff operations.
1-2. Maneuver brigades provide the division commander with close combat capabilities to execute missions
to achieve military objectives during engagements, battles, and campaigns. There are three standard types of
maneuver brigades—armored brigades, mobile brigades, and Stryker brigades. Multifunctional support
brigades (sustainment, field artillery, maneuver support, protection, and aviation) reinforce maneuver
brigades by providing capabilities that enable them to fight as formations.
1-3. The role of the BSB is to provide sustainment support (logistics and medical) to its supported brigade.
Note. For the purposes of this publication, discussion of “supported brigade(s)” applies to
maneuver brigades, combat aviation brigades, field artillery brigades, and multi-domain task
forces unless otherwise specified.
1-4. The BSB core competences are planning, synchronization, and execution of sustainment to support
brigade operations.
1-5. The BSB performs the following functions: distribution management and operations, transportation,
supply support, field maintenance, and Role 2 medical care.

CHARACTERISTICS AND CAPABILITIES
1-6. The BSB is a multifunctional logistics battalion capable of operating at the tactical level to support a
brigade. The BSB’s design and core competencies allow it to provide multi-class supply, field maintenance,
and medical support. The BSB has a very broad span of control with seven subordinate companies, three of
which operate in other battalion areas. The BSB has organic medical support capability, medical logistics,
and medical operations personnel in the support operations (SPO) staff. It is dependent on the division
sustainment support battalion (DSSB) for non-mobile class III(B) storage, light infantry troop transportation,
and water treatment. These capabilities, when required, must be coordinated with the division sustainment
brigade (DSB).
1-7. The BSB is organic to and is employed by the brigade combat team. It operates in conjunction with other
battalions in the brigade. The BSB commander executes command and control of BSB units based on mission
orders issued by the brigade commander. BSB operations are based on and nested with the brigade concept
of operations. Although the BSB collaborates closely with the DSB, it does not receive mission orders from
the DSB. The DSB may influence BSB activities in support of division priorities through the operations
process, but in all cases the BSB receives its orders from the supported brigade. The BSB commander
maintains continuous dialogue though command and staff channels with higher sustainment echelons (DSB,
DSSB) in order to provide situational awareness and facilitate anticipation of future requirements.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

1

Chapter 1

1-8. The BSB is an expeditionary formation and deploys with the supported brigade unless otherwise
directed. The BSBs in mobile, Stryker, and armored brigades are designed to deploy forces on short notice
to austere locations and perform sustainment operations immediately upon arrival. Airborne BSBs participate
in parachute assault operations. The BSB integrates joint, inter-organizational, and multinational capabilities
as needed. The battalion is capable of sustaining the supported brigade across the range of military operations.
1-9. The BSB operates from a base or base cluster in the brigade support area (BSA). From this location, the
BSB executes command and control over its organic companies conducting sustainment support. The BSB
distribution company, field maintenance company (FMC), and medical company operate in the BSA. These
companies may be collocated with the BSB command post (CP), but during large-scale combat operations
are tactically dispersed within the BSA in a way that facilitates sustainment operations, mutual support, and
protection. The forward support companies (FSCs) collocate with the combat trains command post (CTCP)
and operate in close proximity with the supported battalions in the brigade close area. The FSC positions
capabilities in the BSA as part of the field trains to expedite distribution support to the maneuver battalions.
1-10. The BSB is responsible for protecting the BSA from level I and II threats using organic equipment.
Additional details on BSB protection and area security are covered in chapter 2.
1-11. The BSB provides area support to units not organic to the brigade when tasked by the brigade
commander. Area support is a task assigned to a sustainment unit directing it to support units in or
passing through a specified location.

COMBAT POWER
1-12. Combat power is the total means of destructive and disruptive force that a military unit/formation can
apply against an enemy at a given time (JP 3-0). Successful execution of the sustainment warfighting function
is essential to generating and maintaining combat power. Effectively task-organized sustainment capabilities
provide commanders with the freedom of action, extended operational reach, and prolonged endurance
necessary to shape the OE, counter aggression on land during crisis, and prevail during large-scale combat
and consolidation of gains.
1-13. The division is the Army’s principal tactical warfighting formation during large-scale combat
operations. Its primary role is to serve as a tactical headquarters commanding brigades. A division typically
commands between two and five maneuver brigades, a mix of functional or multifunctional brigades, and a
variety of smaller enabling units. The maneuver brigade is the Army’s primary combined arms, close combat
maneuver force, designed to maneuver against, close with, and destroy the enemy. There are three types of
maneuver brigades designed for ground maneuver combat: mobile brigades, Stryker brigades, and armored
brigades. Multifunctional and functional brigades provide capabilities such as intelligence, attack and
reconnaissance aviation, fires, protection, contracting support, and sustainment.
1-14. BSBs are combat power enablers. They are organized to generate and maintain combat power during
both non-combat and combat operations. In most configurations, BSBs provide distribution, maintenance,
and medical support to the battalions within a supported brigade. For more information on how the support
battalions provide combat power, refer to FM 4-0 and FM 3-96.

BRIGADE SUPPORT BATTALION ORGANIZATION
1-15. The BSB is organic to a maneuver brigade and provides supply, distribution, maintenance, and Role 2
medical support to the brigade. BSBs command and control their organic companies, conduct support
operations, and plan, coordinate, and synchronize sustainment support for the brigade and units operating
within the brigade area.
1-16. Support battalions typically have the capability to operate a supply support activity (SSA), run a
modular ammunition transfer point (MATP), perform field-level maintenance support, conduct distribution
operations, and provide medical support. The BSB has an organic medical company that provides Role 2
medical care to all units in the brigade. FSCs provide distribution, field feeding, and field-level maintenance
support to their respective battalions. Figure 1-1 shows the organization of a BSB supporting a maneuver
brigade.

2

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

Figure 1-1. Brigade support battalion supporting a maneuver brigade

HEADQUARTERS AND HEADQUARTERS COMPANY
1-17. The headquarters and headquarters company (HHC) includes a command group, coordinating staff,
and headquarters.
1-18. Companies within the different types of BSBs are similarly structured but vary in capacity. The
command group consists of commander, first sergeant, executive officer, and command staff. The HHC
includes a field feeding section that supports BSB units and the brigade headquarters.

DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
1-19. The mission of the distribution company is to provide transportation, supply, and distribution support
to the brigade. The distribution company plans, directs, and supervises supply distribution in the BSA. The
distribution company has three platoons: a transportation platoon, a supply platoon, and a fuel and water
platoon. Distribution capability is based on the type of supported brigade. For example, the armored brigade
BSB distribution company has a greater fuel distribution capability than the distribution companies for a
mobile brigade. The distribution company receives supplies from the supporting DSSB or combat
sustainment support battalion (CSSB) and stores and issues them to units either within the BSA or by delivery
to the FSCs. The BSB is responsible for distributing supplies through the following methods:
• Unit distribution is a method of distributing supplies by which the receiving unit is issued supplies
in its own area, with transportation furnished by the issuing agency.
• Supply point distribution is a method of distributing supplies to the receiving unit at a supply point.
The receiving unit then moves the supplies to its own area using its own transportation.
• Throughput distribution is a method of distribution which bypasses one or more intermediate supply
echelons in the supply system to avoid multiple handling (ATP 4-92).
For more information on these distribution methods, see Chapter 3.

Transportation Platoon
1-20. The transportation platoon provides transportation support to the brigade and distributes supplies to the
FSCs. Based on the type of brigade the distribution company supports, it can be equipped with the palletized

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

3

Chapter 1

load-handling system variants of the heavy expanded mobility tactical truck, heavy expanded mobility
tactical truck-load handling system, or other variants of the family of medium tactical vehicles.
1-21. The number of truck squads in the transportation platoons vary based on the type of supported brigade.
Many BSBs establish a hub with the distribution company and have the FSCs pick up supplies in the BSA,
using the transportation platoon to support BSA internal movements, cross-leveling, high-priority
movements, and critical resupplies.

Supply Platoon
1-22. The supply platoon operates an SSA and an MATP or ammunition transfer holding point (ATHP).
Supply platoon personnel conduct SSA operations and perform the daily receipt, storage, and issue of supply
classes I, II, III(P), IV, V, and IX.
Supply Support Activity
1-23. The multi-class SSA provides support to maneuver brigades and combat aviation brigades (CABs).
SSA personnel—
• Perform stock control functions.
• Supervise, direct, and manage the receipt, storage, and issue of supplies and equipment.
• Manage and maintain the authorized stockage list in conjunction with the supply platoon
headquarters.
• Verify stock numbers and quantities of materiel and check for damaged individual and packaged
items as they enter and exit the SSA.
• Physically place incoming items, retrieve outgoing items, and are responsible for the overall
condition of the storage facilities.
• Reconfigure loads for unit and supply point distribution.
• Receive supplies and equipment from units, coordinate transportation, and package shipments for
retrograde.
1-24. The SSA accountable officer is responsible for establishing its authorized stockage list forward for
expediency and integration. The SPO, under advisement from the SSA accountable officer and approved by
the BSB commander, will configure its authorized stockage list for expeditionary operations in austere or
contingency environments and may choose to deploy a subset of its authorized stockage list forward. This
configuration analysis must be performed to determine the best outcome for the brigade. For additional
information on SSA operations, refer to ATP 4-42.2.
Ammunition Section
1-25. The ammunition section supplies ammunition for the supported brigade. Depending on the type of
ammunition section, they will primarily transfer or hold munitions prior to issue. The ammunition section
chief manages the assigned personnel and equipment. The ammunition manager in the BSB SPO section
oversees and manages the ammunition section and all personnel receiving and distributing ammunition
within the brigade. The ammunition manager advises the BSB commander on ammunition distribution and
oversees the training and technical aspects of the ammunition section.
1-26. The BSBs of Stryker, infantry, and armored brigades, CABs, and multi-domain task forces (MDTFs)
receive ammunition support through an MATP. The ammunition section supporting the MATP contains
multiple lift teams equipped with dedicated materials handling equipment. This permits increased flexibility
for the BSB to surge lift capabilities forward to transload Class V quickly to the supported units.
1-27. MATPs are intended to transfer munitions, though they can temporarily store them under certain
conditions. The MATP should not be used as a storage facility for the brigade. The MATP is designed to
transload munitions from echelons above brigade transportation assets, providing limited load configuration
based on operational requirements or suspensions, and temporarily holding ammunition for FSCs.
1-28. The BSBs of field artillery brigades (FABs) receive ammunition support through an ATHP. An ATHP
is a designated ammunition support activity operated by a BSB distribution company where ammunition is

4

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

received, temporarily stored, brought to record, and transferred to supported units within a functional or
multifunctional brigade.
1-29. Munitions personnel from the supply platoon receive requested ammunition from the ammunition
supply activity, usually delivered by the CSSB or DSSB. There the ammunition may receive final pallet
reconfiguration and issue. The MATP or ATHP issues ammunition to a unit supply section, and then the
munitions are issued to the end user. The ammunition section may employ the web-based Standard Army
Ammunition System (known as SAAS) to formally account for ammunition in its inventory. In cybercontested environments, the ammunition section will maintain accountability via analog means. Ammunition
transactional data is made available to the supporting theater distribution management center. This provides
echelons above brigade elements visibility of what the brigade has received and has on-hand to facilitate the
anticipatory logistics process.
1-30. For additional information on the MATP and ATHP, refer to ATP 4-35. For information on munitions
safety, refer to ATP 4-35.1.

Fuel and Water Platoon
1-31. The fuel and water platoon conducts petroleum and water support operations. The BSB does not possess
static petroleum storage or water production capabilities.
Petroleum Section
1-32. The fuel section receives, temporarily stores, and issues bulk petroleum to the FSCs utilizing heavy
expanded mobility tactical truck tankers and modular fuel system tank racks. The fuel section’s distribution
capacity is based on the type of brigade it supports. The section also ensures the quality of the petroleum
product, ensuring that the fuel is neither contaminated nor degraded.
1-33. The section has no static storage capability. This enables the unit to displace whenever necessary. For
more information on petroleum distribution, refer to ATP 4-43.
Water Section
1-34. The water section provides water storage and distribution support to the brigade but does not have
organic water purification capability. It relies on the composite supply company to provide water treatment
capabilities, which may be pushed forward based on the concept of support. The water section has the
capability to store and distribute 20,000 gallons of water using a forward area waterpoint supply system and
water tank racks (also known as HIPPOs). Aviation support battalions (ASBs) have an organic water
treatment capability to support CAB internal potable water requirements.
1-35. The water section monitors the potability of stored water by measuring pH and chlorine levels to ensure
the water is within the standard outlined in TB MED 577. For additional information on water support
operations, refer to ATP 4-44.

FIELD MAINTENANCE COMPANY
1-36. The FMC provides field-level maintenance support to the brigade. The company provides recovery of
organic equipment, recovery to supported units, and support for maintenance evacuation of equipment
requiring sustainment-level maintenance. The company provides limited maintenance support to the FSCs
for low-density equipment such as communications, electronics, armament, and ground support equipment.
1-37. Field maintenance is on-system maintenance, repair and return to the user including maintenance
actions performed by operators (ATP 4-33). Field maintenance also includes adjustments, alignments,
services, applying approved field-level modification work orders, fault or failure diagnoses, battle damage
assessment and repair (BDAR), recovery, corrosion prevention, and common software updates. Field-level
maintenance is typically repair-and-return to the user and includes maintenance actions performed by
crewmembers, operators, and institutionally trained maintainers.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

5

Chapter 1

Note. The FMC does not provide maintenance on maneuver brigade main weapon systems (M1
Abrams, M2/3 Bradley, Paladin, or Stryker). The maintainers for those systems are only resident
in the FSC.
The FMC in a Stryker brigade does include mechanics to maintain the medical company's Stryker
medical vehicles.

Company Headquarters
1-38. The company headquarters includes the commander, first sergeant, and executive officer. The company
commander executes the BSB commander’s maintenance plan in support of the SPO concept of support. The
commander also manages the employment of all maintenance and recovery assets and provides input to the
BSB common operating picture. The first sergeant is the company’s senior noncommissioned officer (NCO)
and the commander’s primary logistics and tactical advisor. The first sergeant works with the commander
and executive officer to coordinate all logistics activities that support the company mission. The executive
officer is the primary internal logistics planner and coordinator. Along with the company headquarters
section, the executive officer operates the company CP and coordinates with higher, adjacent, and supported
units.

Maintenance Platoon
1-39. The FMC maintenance platoon performs field-level maintenance support for the BSB and the brigade
headquarters. Field maintenance includes adjustment, alignment, services, applying approved field-level
modification work orders, fault and failure diagnoses, BDAR, and recovery.
Maintenance Control Section
1-40. The company’s maintenance control section coordinates with the BSB SPO staff and directs and
controls the workflow for the assigned maintainers. The section also coordinates with the SSA to ensure
prompt availability of required repair parts and other maintenance supplies. The maintenance control section
schedules shop input, assigns work to various shop sections to keep all shops working at capacity, and
carefully screens maintenance requests and inspection reports to ensure maximum repair. It may also shift
assets based on the availability of resources, capability of personnel, and shop capacity.
Service and Recovery Section
1-41. The service and recovery section is comprised of allied trades personnel and recovery specialists. The
section provides recovery and advanced machine shop fabrication support for the supported unit. It may also
provide support for maintenance evacuation of equipment requiring sustainment-level maintenance.
Field Maintenance Section
1-42. The field maintenance section provides welding and lift capabilities for the repair shops. It can also
perform BDAR, if authorized, for units in the BSA and can provide limited assistance to the FSCs. BDAR is
the rapid return of disabled equipment to the force through field-expedient repair of components. These
repairs restore minimum essential combat capabilities to support the mission or to enable self-recovery. Fieldexpedient repairs are authorized only under BDAR requirements during conflict or major training exercises
simulating combat operations.
1-43. Refer to ATP 4-31 for more information on BDAR. Refer to ATP 4-33 for more information on
maintenance operations.
Ground Support Equipment, Missile and Communication, Electronic Repair, and Armament Repair Sections
1-44. These sections provide maintenance for automotive, armament, electronics, and ground support
equipment. They also provide limited maintenance support to the FSCs for low-density equipment
maintenance such as communications, electronic, missile, and armament equipment.

6

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

BRIGADE SUPPORT MEDICAL COMPANY
1-45. The brigade support medical company (BSMC) provides Army Health System (AHS) support to a
maneuver brigade. It provides Role 1 and Role 2 in support of the brigade and AHS support on an area basis
to all brigade units that do not have organic medical assets.
Note. Role 1 medical support provides primary healthcare, specialized first aid, triage,
resuscitation, and stabilization. Role 2 medical support provides advanced medical treatment as
close to the point of injury as possible to attain stabilization of the patient (ATP 4-02.6).
1-46. The BSMC consists of a company headquarters, preventive medicine section, behavioral health section,
medical treatment platoon, medical evacuation platoon, and a brigade medical supply office. A forward
resuscitative and surgical detachment (FRSD) may augment the BSMC with a forward surgical capability
when required based upon mission requirements or mission variables. The BSMC provides—
• Command and control of attached units, which includes medical planning and coordination of
patient movement within and outside of the brigade.
• Treatment of disease and non-battle injury patients, triage of mass casualties, initial resuscitation
and stabilization, and preparation for further evacuation of patients incapable of returning to duty.
• Ground evacuation for patients from the battalion aid stations and designated casualty collection
points (CCPs) to the BSMC.
• Operational dental care that consists of emergency and essential dental care designed to circumvent
potential dental emergencies.
• Unit-level medical device maintenance.
• Medical laboratory and radiology services commensurate with Role 2 medical treatment facilities
(MTFs).
• Outpatient consultation services for patients referred from Role 1 MTFs.
• Patient holding for up to 20 patients able to return to duty within 72 hours.
• Reinforcement and augmentation to supported maneuver battalion medical platoons.
• Regeneration of severely attritted battalion aid stations.
• Treatment squads capable of breaking down into two treatment teams, which can also operate
independently for limited periods of time.
• Operational public health support.

Company Headquarters
1-47. The BSMC commander advises the BSB commander on medical aspects of battalion operations and
on the health of supported personnel. The medical company commander ensures that the medical annex of
the operation order includes procedures to process and treat chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
(CBRN) contaminated casualties and provisions for CBRN collective protective shelter systems and
decontamination support. The annex should list provisions for supporting air and ground ambulances,
augmentation of medical support assets for contingency operations, detainee operations, and customer
assistance on obtaining Class VIII, and for medical representation on casualty damage assessment sections.

Preventive Medicine Section
1-48. The preventive medicine section is primarily responsible for identifying health threats and occupational
or environmental health hazards, assessing the health risk associated with these threats, and recommending
protective measures. The section serves as the principal consultant and the command’s public health and
environmental sciences advisor. This section develops, plans, and implements operational public health
policies and programs for the operational area. These programs include medical surveillance, occupational
and environmental health surveillance, pest management activities, epidemiological investigations, food
service facility sanitation and hygiene, and inspection of potable water supplies. This section monitors and
analyzes disease and non-battle injury reports submitted by AHS elements within the area of operations.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

7

Chapter 1

Behavioral Health Section
1-49. The behavioral health section provides brigade-wide behavioral health services. This section screens
and evaluates Soldiers with maladaptive behaviors to rule out neuropsychiatric/behavioral health conditions.
This enables diagnosis, treatment, and disposition for Soldiers with neuropsychiatric/behavioral problems.
1-50. The behavioral health section provides behavioral health/neuropsychiatric treatment for Soldiers with
behavioral disorders to sustain them on duty or to stabilize them for referral/transfer. This is usually a brief,
time-limited treatment as dictated by the operational situation. Behavioral health/neuropsychiatric treatment
includes counseling, psychotherapy, behavior therapy, occupational therapy, and medication therapy.

Medical Treatment Platoon
1-51. The medical treatment section provides emergency and routine sick call treatment to Soldiers assigned
or attached to supported units. When positioned with the BSMC, the treatment section personnel work in the
Role 2 MTF. The medical treatment squads include two treatment teams to provide Role 1 medical treatment
and augmentation support to the brigade’s maneuver battalions as required.
1-52. The forward medical treatment squad can operate independently for limited periods of time to provide
advanced trauma management and sick call as required. The forward medical treatment squad must be
prepared for short-notice forward deployment; therefore, personnel, medical equipment sets, and vehicles
must be in a high state of readiness.
1-53. The area medical treatment squad is the base medical treatment section of the BSMC Role 2 MTF and
does not forward deploy. It is identical to the medical treatment squad and will generally include more
experienced personnel.
1-54. The Role 2 MTF may be augmented with a prolonged care augmentation detachment squad, capable
of caring for up to eight postoperative or critical patients and providing en route care for up to eight patients.
The squad can manage up to 40 minimal patients but does not increase MTF capacity. For more information
on the prolonged care augmentation detachment squad, refer to ATP 4-02.10.
1-55. Additionally, the Role 2 MTF may be supplemented with an FRSD. The FRSD is assigned to the
medical brigade and is attached to a Role 2 medical company when deployed forward. While attached to a
Role 2 medical company, the FRSD provides damage control resuscitation and damage control surgery.
When not operationally employed and attached to a Role 2 medical company, the FRSD is attached to a Role
3 hospital to augment their surgical services with general surgery and orthopedic surgery capabilities. This
detachment is a Role 3 capability that can be employed at Role 2, depending on mission variables.
Area Support Squad
1-56. There are four different sections in the area support squad: the dental section, the physical therapy
section, the laboratory section, and the radiology section:
• The dental section provides operational dental care which consists of emergency dental care and
essential dental care intended to intercept dental emergencies. This also includes dental consultation
and x-ray services.
• The physical therapy section plans and supervises physical therapy programs through patient selfreferral or referral from a medical or dental officer or other health professionals in medical settings.
• The laboratory section performs clinical laboratory procedures for the diagnosis, treatment, and
prevention of diseases. This section is responsible for storing and issuing blood and blood products
and, when necessary, managing emergency blood donor operations.
• The radiology section provides x-ray equipment and performs routine clinical radiological
procedures to aid physicians and physician assistants in the diagnosis and treatment of patients.
Patient Holding Squad
1-57. The patient holding squad operates the patient holding facility of the BSMC Role 2 MTF. It is staffed
and equipped to provide care for up to 20 patients.

8

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

1-58. The main purpose of patient holding is to provide nursing care for patients awaiting evacuation and
those expected to return to duty within 72 hours. Patients in patient hold are not formally admitted as
inpatients, but the nursing skills required are like those in a minimum care ward. These tasks are crucial in
scenarios where evacuation to a higher level of care is delayed or for post-operative patients from the FRSD.
1-59. Role 2 facilities lack admission capabilities and serve as holding areas for patients; they are not
classified as hospital admissions. When co-located with or operating alongside a FRSD, the patient holding
squad may function as an overflow recovery space for post-operative patients and those awaiting evacuation.
However, this doesn't include patient feeding services. Therefore, patients must receive their meals from the
supporting field feeding facility.
1-60. Patients awaiting evacuation or treatment for minor illnesses or injuries are accommodated in the
patient holding area. This includes neuropsychiatric and combat and operational stress reaction patients
expected to return to duty within 72 hours. If recovery or return to duty isn't anticipated within this timeframe,
patients are evacuated to a supporting Role 3 facility for admission. The brigade commander, with advice
from the command surgeon, may extend this holding period as per theater evacuation policies.

Medical Evacuation Platoon
1-61. The BSMC evacuation platoon performs ground evacuation and enroute patient care for supported
units. The evacuation platoon consists of a platoon headquarters, an area support evacuation section, and a
forward evacuation section. Platoon assets are located where they can best respond to requirements. The
platoon provides ground ambulance evacuation support for the maneuver battalions and to other units
receiving area medical support from the BSMC.
1-62. The evacuation platoon establishes and maintains contact with supported units and forward deployed
treatment squads/teams of the BSMC. It performs route reconnaissance and develops and issues all necessary
evacuation routes, navigational information, and graphic control measures. The platoon receives evacuation
requests from supported units and coordinates and establishes ambulance exchange points for both air and
ground ambulances. The evacuation squads provide ground ambulance evacuation of patients from forward
areas to the BSMC Role 2 MTF. For additional information on medical evacuation, refer to ATP 4-02.2.

Brigade Medical Supply Office
1-63. The brigade medical supply office provides Class VIII and medical device maintenance and repair
support to the BSMC’s supported elements. It is responsible for providing Class VIII, routed through supply
channels, to the Role 2 medical company and other medical elements when attached. For additional
information on the BSMC refer to ATP 4-02.6.

FORWARD SUPPORT COMPANIES
1-64. The FSC provides direct logistics support to maneuver battalions. It provides field feeding, bulk
petroleum, general supply, ammunition, and field maintenance to the maneuver battalion. FSCs are
multifunctional logistics companies that are organic to the BSB in brigade combat teams. Each FSC is aligned
with one of the brigade’s battalions and structured with capabilities to specifically meet that battalion’s
logistics support requirements. FSCs typically provide distribution, field-level maintenance, and field feeding
for their supported battalions.
1-65. FSCs are organic to BSBs in maneuver brigades. They may be attached to field artillery and engineer
battalions. Aviation FSCs are organic to helicopter battalions.
1-66. FSCs that are organic to a BSB maintain a direct support relationship with their supported battalions
but remain under the command and control of the BSB commander. This enables the BSB to rapidly surge
logistics support during operations in accordance with the brigade commander’s intent.
1-67. The FSC normally operates near its supported battalion. The supported battalion determines the
location of the FSC. The distance between the FSC and the battalion is based on mission variables. The FSC
commander is not a battalion staff officer. The FSC commander is responsible for executing logistics support
in accordance with the BSB and supported commander’s guidance and the brigade concept of support.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

9

Chapter 1

Integrating the logistics plan early into the supported battalion’s or squadron S-3’s operational plan will help
to mitigate logistic shortfalls and support the commander’s ability to seize, retain, and exploit gains.

Headquarters Section and Field Feeding Section
1-68. The FSC commander is responsible for executing logistics support in accordance with the BSB and
supported commander’s guidance and the brigade concept of support. The headquarters section may be
divided, with some elements operating in the BSA and others with the combat trains.
1-69. The headquarters field feeding section provides food service and food preparation for the supported
battalion. The field feeding section prepares, serves, and distributes operational rations and can execute
tactical food service operations for 750-1,000 Soldiers from one consolidated location or three to four remote
locations (based on brigade type). ATP 4-41 provides additional information on field feeding.

Distribution Platoon
1-70. The distribution platoon consists of a platoon headquarters and four squads that can be task organized.
The distribution platoon of the FSC oversees logistics package (LOGPAC) operations and manages the
distribution of supplies coming from or passing through the FSC in support of its battalion or squadron. The
distribution platoon conducts replenishment operations and provides distribution of Class I, II, III, IV, V,
VII, VIII and IX. The platoon is equipped with vehicles based on the mission of the battalion it supports.
Platoons supporting an armored brigade or Stryker brigade will likely have the palletized load-handling
system and variants of the heavy expandable mobility tactical truck.
Water Section
1-71. FSCs do not have the organic capability to treat bulk water, or store and distribute water to maneuver
units. Water equipment organic to FSCs includes the 400-gallon water trailer (commonly known as the water
buffalo) and the 800-gallon unit water pod system which supports internal FSC water consumption. The BSB
may provide 2,000-gallon water tank ranks (HIPPOs) to the FSC battalion supply point; in this case,
maneuver companies would receive water pushed to them via unit distribution. ATP 4-44 provides additional
information on water production and distribution.
Petroleum Section
1-72. The petroleum section receives, provides mobile storage, and issues petroleum to its supported
battalion. It may also provide refueling options to brigade units passing through the supported battalion’s
area of operations.

Maintenance Platoon
1-73. The maintenance platoon performs field-level maintenance and recovery operations for the FSC and
its supported battalion or squadron vehicles and equipment. The maintenance platoon leader coordinates all
maintenance requirements with the FSC commander. The platoon consists of the platoon headquarters
section, maintenance control section, field maintenance section, service and recovery section, and field
maintenance teams (FMTs). The FSC maintenance platoon establishes the maintenance collection point
(MCP) and provides vehicle and equipment evacuation and maintenance support to the FMTs. The MCP is
normally located near or collocated with the combat trains for security.
Maintenance Control Section
1-74. The maintenance control section is the management center for all maintenance actions in the FSC and
supported battalion. The maintenance control section performs maintenance management functions and
dispatching operations and tracks scheduled services for the maneuver battalion and FSC. The maintenance
control section also has a small supply section that provides Class IX support, including shop stock and bench
stock for shop operations. It also provides exchange of repairable items. The maintenance control officer is
the senior maintenance representative and manages the maintenance section, the service section, and the
FMTs. The maintenance control section also oversees execution of materiel management functions including

10

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

supply planning, requirements determination, requirements verification, stock control, asset visibility, and
asset reporting.
Field Maintenance Section
1-75. The field maintenance section performs field-level maintenance on FSC and supported battalion
headquarters vehicles and maintenance on armament, communications, and electronics equipment for the
battalion. It provides support to the FMTs and is generally found in the MCP or BSA.
Service and Recovery Section
1-76. The FSC has recovery assets located in the recovery section and FMTs within the field maintenance
platoon. The FSC commander, along with the maintenance warrant officer or maintenance noncommissioned
officer in charge, and the supported battalion or squadron S-4 track and manage recovery operations. The
section performs service and recovery operations for the supported battalion’s vehicles.
Field Maintenance Teams
1-77. The FSC provides FMTs as far forward as possible and does the bulk of its work no further back than
the MCP. A maintenance collection point is a temporary location established within the battalion echelon for
the collection of equipment needing or undergoing field maintenance (ATP 4-33). Tasking orders should
contain all the information required for the FSC to coordinate support for the assigned maneuver company.
1-78. The FSC establishes communication with all supported units to enable effective maintenance support
and coordination. This ensures that the FSC has all supported unit locations and equipment density. The FSC
uses this coordination to assist in planning and managing the workload of the FMTs.
1-79. FMTs provide field maintenance, BDAR, and recovery for their supported companies. All or part of
an FMT typically travels with the company trains.
1-80. The supported company commander and the maintenance control section establish FMT priorities in
accordance with the battalion commander’s guidance. The FMT maintenance noncommissioned officer in
charge supervises the FMT, which works under the operational control of the maneuver company. The
maneuver unit fully integrates FMTs into its operational plans.
1-81. FMTs perform repairs as far forward as possible to return equipment to the battle quickly. The teams
perform BDAR, diagnostics, and on-system replacement of line-replaceable units. FMTs focus on
completing jobs on site if the tactical situation permits. However, they may need to evacuate equipment to
the MCP to conduct repairs. FMTs carry limited on-board combat spares to facilitate forward repairs.

LIGHT SUPPORT BATTALION
1-82. The light support battalion (LSB) provides multi-functional logistics support to mobile brigades. Its
core competencies are planning, synchronizing, and executing sustainment in support of brigade operations.
1-83. The LSB is assigned to the DSB and operates in direct support of the supported mobile brigade. It
provides direct support logistics, field maintenance, and Role 1 and 2 medical support to the mobile brigade.
The LSB consists of headquarters and distribution company, maintenance supply company, medical
company, and three combat logistics companies. Figure 1-2 on page 12 shows the organization of an LSB
supporting a mobile brigade.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

11

Chapter 1

Figure 1-2. Light support battalion supporting a mobile brigade

HEADQUARTERS AND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
1-84. The headquarters and distribution company provides command and control, administrative, and
logistics support for all organic, assigned, and attached units to plan, direct, and supervise supply support
operations and supply distribution to the mobile brigade. It consists of—
• Battalion command section and staff.
• Company headquarters and field feeding section.
• Transportation platoon.
• Fuel and water platoon.
1-85. The transportation platoon consists of a platoon headquarters section, a truck squad with palletized load
system trucks and trailers, and an MATP section. The platoon transports flatracks of combat-configured
supplies and ammunition to support the mobile brigade.
1-86. The fuel and water platoon is made up of a platoon headquarters section, a class III section, and a water
section. It can receive, store, and distribute bulk fuel and water.

MAINTENANCE SUPPLY COMPANY
1-87. The maintenance supply company provides field-level maintenance support to the LSB for all
automotive, ground support, and communications-electronic equipment, armament peculiar systems, and
provides limited recovery support. It manages the stockage of supplies for the brigade, operates a multi-class
SSA, and supports distribution capability for all classes of supply. It consists of—
• Company headquarters.
• Maintenance platoon.
• Supply platoon.
1-88. The maintenance platoon consists of a platoon headquarters and maintenance control section, a service
and recovery section, a field maintenance section, a ground support equipment repair section, a
missile/electronics repair section, and an armament repair section. It performs field maintenance for itself,
the headquarters and distribution company, and medical company on organic equipment and back-up service
and recovery and automotive and armament, ground support equipment and electronics maintenance to the
combat logistic companies as required.
1-89. The supply platoon consists of a platoon headquarters section which provides leadership, supervision,
and technical guidance to the supply platoon and operates a multi-class SSA. It also contains a general supply
and Class IX section that supervises, directs, and manages the receipt, storage, and issue of supplies and
equipment, including Class VIII medical supplies and mail.

BRIGADE SUPPORT MEDICAL COMPANY
1-90. The BSMC provides AHS support to a mobile brigade. It provides Role 1 and Role 2 medical support
to the brigade and AHS support on an area basis to all brigade units that do not have organic medical assets.
The BSMC’s roles, characteristics, capabilities, and combat power are unchanged from the BSMC in the
BSB.

12

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

1-91. The BSMC consists of a company headquarters, preventive medicine section, behavioral health section,
medical treatment platoon, medical evacuation platoon, and a brigade medical supply office. An FRSD may
augment the BSMC with a forward surgical capability when required based upon mission requirements or
mission variables.

COMBAT LOGISTICS COMPANY
1-92. The combat logistics company provides logistics in direct support to an infantry battalion. It provides
the supported commander with dedicated logistics assets organized to meet the infantry battalion
requirements. This includes field feeding, bulk fuel, general supply, ammunition, and field-level
maintenance. It consists of—
• Company headquarters and field feeding section.
• Distribution platoon.
• Maintenance platoon and maintenance control section.
1-93. The combat logistics company normally operates near its supported battalion. The supported battalion
determines the location of the company based on mission variables. The combat logistics company
commander is responsible for executing logistics support in accordance with the LSB and supported
commander’s guidance and the brigade concept of support.
1-94. The headquarters platoon consists of company headquarters and field feeding sections. The
headquarters section provides command and control for the company’s operations. The field feeding section
provides food service and food preparation for the supported battalion. It prepares, serves, and distributes
rations and can execute tactical food service operations for the supported battalion.
1-95. The distribution platoon headquarters provides leadership, supervision, and technical guidance for
distribution of ammunition, fuel, and supplies. It oversees LOGPAC operations and manages the distribution
of supplies coming from or passing through the combat logistics company in support of the infantry battalion.
1-96. The maintenance platoon is made up of a headquarters, maintenance control, and field maintenance
section. The platoon headquarters section provides leadership and technical supervision for maintenance
operations. The maintenance control section performs maintenance management functions, dispatching
operations, and tracks scheduled services. It maintains repair parts for shop operations. The field maintenance
section provides recovery, base shop, and on-site field maintenance in support of the infantry battalion.

MULTIFUNCTIONAL BRIGADES
1-97. While maneuver brigades are the Army’s primary combined arms, close-operations force and principal
ground maneuver units of the division, a mix of multifunctional and functional support brigades support the
theater Army, corps, and division. Multifunctional support brigades provide a variety of functions in support
operations. Functional brigades provide a single function or capability. These multifunctional and functional
brigades are task-organized under corps and division control, enabling them to conduct large-scale combat
operations.
1-98. Multifunctional support brigades are normally attached to a corps or division. These brigades may also
be under the command of joint or multinational headquarters. These brigades add capabilities (such as attack
and reconnaissance aviation and fire support) that complement the maneuver brigades and enable the division
to fight as a combined arms formation. BSBs are specifically designed for the type of brigade supported.

FIELD ARTILLERY BRIGADE
1-99. The FAB does not have a traditional BSB. The FAB BSB is a headquarters support company with a
battalion-level command and staff and SPO section. It has a support platoon and a maintenance platoon that
have sufficient capacity to support the company itself and the FAB headquarters only. The SPO section
coordinates support for the FAB’s assigned or attached battalions with the supporting sustainment brigade.
1-100. The support platoon contains a distribution section and an ATHP section. The distribution section
conducts distribution of dry cargo and bulk class III. The ATHP section receives, stores, and reconfigures
ammunition. It can conduct limited duration split-based operations and provide limited munitions
maintenance.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

13

Chapter 1

1-101. The maintenance platoon contains a field maintenance section and a service and recovery section. The
field maintenance section provides on-site field level maintenance for supported equipment in the brigade
headquarters. The service and recovery section provides allied trades for repair shops and vehicle recovery
for the brigade headquarters. It also provides backup recovery to field maintenance teams and supports
maintenance evacuation. For additional information on field artillery sustainment, refer to ATP 3-09.24.
1-102. Each field artillery battalion in the FAB has an assigned FSC. These FSCs are tailored to support the
type of weapon system used by the battalion to which they are assigned. Each FSC has a headquarters,
distribution, and maintenance platoon. The distribution platoon conducts motor transport operations and
petroleum support operations. The maintenance platoon conducts field maintenance and includes FMTs for
each battery. The FSC coordinates through the FAB SPO for additional support.

DIVISION ARTILLERY
1-103. While the division artillery (DIVARTY) is a brigade-level field artillery command assigned to a
division, it does not have a BSB. The division’s assigned DSB provides direct support to the DIVARTY
based on mission variables. Each field artillery battalion within the DIVARTY is supported by an assigned
FSC. For additional information on DIVARTY sustainment, refer to ATP 3-09.90.

MANEUVER ENHANCEMENT BRIGADE
1-104. The maneuver enhancement brigade is a multifunctional brigade that does not have a BSB. The
maneuver enhancement brigade provides task-organized forces to support Army division, echelon above
division, joint, interagency, or multinational headquarters. It consists of two organic units: a headquarters
support company and a brigade signal company. The maneuver enhancement brigade is task organized based
on mission requirements for the echelon it supports, and coordinates with higher echelon headquarters for
sustainment. The headquarters support company provides command and control and unit-level administrative
and logistics support for all task organized units.

SPECIAL FORCES GROUP SUPPORT BATTALION
1-105. The group support battalion (GSB) is the primary logistics provider in the special forces group. Its
role is to plan, coordinate, synchronize, and execute logistics operations to support the special forces group.
When an Army Service component command’s logistics support is unavailable or not established in the joint
operations area, the GSB will be the primary common-user logistics provider. The group’s commander is the
senior logistician in the group and advises the group commander in logistics management and execution.
1-106. The GSB is a joint and multinational-capable organization as it can accept, integrate, and employ the
augmentation of assets from other Services and nations. In a joint special operations task force, the GSB
commander may assume the role of deputy commander for support in addition to commanding the battalion.
As the deputy commander for support, the GSB commander develops the sustainment concept of support for
the joint special operations task force, including elements from the Marine Corps Special Operations
Command, Naval Special Warfare Command, and Air Force Special Operations Command. Refer to FM
3-16 for additional considerations.

Capabilities
1-107. The GSB provides rapidly deployable multifunctional logistics and medical support. The GSB
maintenance company provides field-level maintenance support to special operations forces-peculiar
wheeled vehicles and power generation equipment, along with vehicle recovery operations for the group
headquarters and co-located elements. In developed theaters of operations, the GSB synchronizes its support
with conventional forces.
1-108. Due to the dispersion of supported units, the GSB coordinates with conventional force sustainment
brigades, the expeditionary sustainment command, and the theater sustainment command as needed. This
enables area support to each special operations task force, advanced operations base, and special forces
operational detachment. Area support enables special operations forces elements in the vicinity of
conventional force bases to receive sustainment support. The special operations sustainment brigade provides
a key link to conventional forces by embedding Army special operations forces liaison elements and Army

14

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

special operations forces support operations teams in tactical and operational conventional force sustainment
structures.
1-109. The GSB and FSCs may require augmentation to provide logistics support during sustained operations
or for capabilities not organic to the special forces group. The augmentation may be necessary when the
special operations task forces are set up in undeveloped theaters, when they do not establish special operations
task force bases at fixed facilities, or when a high percentage of special forces operational detachments are
committed simultaneously. The GSB is often required to execute split-based operations outside the
continental United States.

Task Organization
1-110. The GSB controls consolidated logistics facilities at the joint special operations task force and projects
sustainment operations using ground and air assets. GSBs have a headquarters detachment, sustainment and
distribution company, maintenance company, technical and information support company, special forces
advance skills company, signal detachment, military intelligence company, a tactical unmanned aircraft
system platoon, and an electronic warfare platoon. Medical units providing area support and a special
operations medical detachment in the special operations sustainment brigade provide medical coverage to a
GSB. FSCs are assigned to special forces battalions.
Headquarters and Headquarters Detachment
1-111. The headquarters and headquarters detachment of the GSB provides organic battalion-level
administrative and supply support for all assigned and attached personnel and coordinates external support
for the special forces battalions through the SPO section.
1-112. The GSB SPO section is the hub of multifunctional logistics operations to support the special forces
group. It performs continuous sustainment preparation of the OE, develops and synchronizes the overall
sustainment concept of support, plans and coordinates for ground/air resupply, plans for landing zones in the
vicinity of the special operations task force, and develops the logistics synchronization matrix. The SPO
section plans the allocation of resources in conjunction with the supported chain of command.
1-113. The SPO staff is made up of operations, intelligence, movement, electromagnetic warfare,
procurement, petroleum, ammunition, supply, maintenance, food service, and mobility (including strategic
air and ground) experts. The SPO section of the GSB provides centralized, integrated planning for logistics
management operations in the special forces group.
Sustainment and Distribution Company
1-114. The sustainment and distribution company is a multifunctional logistics company consisting of
supply, service, distribution, and airborne support platoons. The company provides maintenance, Classes I
through IX supplies, water production, base support, aerial delivery, ammunition holding, medical support,
and transportation. The sustainment and distribution company is independently deployable and capable of
providing common-user logistics support to a force package of approximately 2,200 personnel when
combined with the logistics support capabilities resident in the special forces battalions. The GSB depends
upon augmentation from the theater sustainment command for support to progressively larger and more
widely dispersed special operations force packages.
Maintenance Company
1-115. The maintenance company consists of the following sections: headquarters, maintenance control,
ground maintenance, electronic maintenance, armament maintenance, and base support. It provides base
operations support and field-level maintenance for Army-common and select specific special operations
forces automotive, power generation, armament, construction, quartermaster, communications, electronic,
and ground support equipment.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

15

Chapter 1

Forward Support Company
1-116. Each special forces battalion has an organic FSC. The FSC consists of sustainment, distribution, and
maintenance platoons. It is a multifunctional logistics company that provides maintenance, limited Class I
through IX supplies, liquid logistics (fuel and water production), ammunition holding, and transportation.
The FSC is independently deployable and capable of providing support to an entire special forces battalion
and its attached elements. When the special forces battalion establishes a special operations task force, the
FSC commander may coordinate and supervise the support center logistics activities. The FSC—
• Provides continuous battle tracking of special forces battalion units.
• Assists the battalion S-4 with developing the sustainment concept of support for the battalion.
• Executes tactical and logistics coordination with higher, adjacent, and supported units, as
appropriate.
• Oversees the development of the daily LOGPAC by the service detachment supply section and the
company supply sergeants.

COMBAT AVIATION BRIGADE
1-117. The core competencies of the CAB are to provide accurate and timely information collection; provide
reaction time and maneuver space; destroy, defeat, disrupt, or delay enemy forces; air assault maneuver
forces; position personnel, supplies, and equipment; evacuate casualties and perform personnel recovery; and
enable command and control to support the combined arms team.
1-118. The CAB is designed to operate as four maneuver battalions/squadron task forces, supported by one
ASB. The unit may receive up to two additional aviation battalions/squadrons or task forces without staff
augmentation. Additional maintenance personnel and equipment would have to be added to support these
additional forces.
1-119. The ASB consists of four companies: the headquarters and support company, the distribution
company, the aviation support company, and the brigade signal company. The ASB is configured differently
from other BSBs. The headquarters and support company provides field maintenance and AHS support to
the brigade. The FSCs and aviation maintenance companies are organic to aviation brigade battalions, not
the ASB.
1-120. The ASB is the primary aviation logistics organization in the CAB and the theater aviation brigade. It
is optimized to support CAB forward support companies/troops, aviation maintenance companies/troops, and
the brigade HHC. The ASB provides field-level maintenance, distributes supply classes I, II, III (bulk), IV,
V, and IX, water storage, and operates an ATHP.

Headquarters and Support Company
1-121. The headquarters and support company provides the field maintenance and AHS support to the
brigade. The commander and staff provide leadership to the company.
1-122. The maintenance platoon primarily supports the ASB's assigned companies and aviation brigade
headquarters. The maintenance platoon oversees field maintenance activities throughout the company,
performs maintenance management and production control functions, and maintains Class IX. The field
maintenance section conducts ground recovery operations and provides maintenance evacuation for the
brigade. The platoon also has automotive, power generation, allied trades, and small arms maintainers.
1-123. The medical platoon has the medical assets to conduct AHS support at a Role 1 MTF for the CAB.
The platoon is organized into headquarters, treatment, and evacuation sections. The brigade HHC and
aviation battalions retain their own flight surgeons and medics in their organic medical treatment teams. The
medical platoon provides the following capabilities for the ASB:
• Tactical combat casualty care and acute trauma management for wounded and disease and nonbattle
injury patients.
• Sick call services.
• Ground ambulance evacuation from supported units.
• Mass casualty triage and management.
• Patient decontamination.

16

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

Distribution Company
1-124. The distribution company provides supply classes I, II, III, IV, V, and bulk water. It provides aircraft
fueling and serves as the SSA warehouse for both air and ground Class IX. The distribution company is also
responsible for all aircraft and ground asset refueling and assists in the setup and management of the forward
arming and refueling point (FARP). The petroleum platoon has a two-person quartermaster petroleum team
assigned to provide quality assurance testing for bulk aviation fuel. This is a critical tool for aviators because
it provides organic support for aircraft petroleum testing.

Aviation Support Company
1-125. The aviation support company provides field-level maintenance support for manned and unmanned
aircraft systems. The company is structured to support aviation battalions that do not have an organic
maintenance capability. It performs BDAR and maintenance augmentation to aviation battalions when
needed. The aviation support company's structure provides it with the capabilities and capacity to perform
component repairs not available to the CAB. However, neither the aviation support company nor any other
organization in the battalion can perform sustainment-level maintenance. Sustainment-level maintenance
personnel handle damaged or inoperable aircraft requiring time-consuming repair actions.
1-126. The aviation support company is organized to support specific types of aircraft. It has a production
control section that develops a maintenance execution plan to support mission requirements as determined
by the commander. The company has a quality control section that provides technical oversight and safety
on all associated maintenance actions, task performance, and inspections. For more information on the
aviation support company, refer to ATP 3-04.7.

Brigade Signal Company
1-127. The brigade signal company provides communication to enhance command and control. It also
provides computer, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance signal systems networks to the supported
CAB. The brigade signal company's support includes deploying, installing, operating, and maintaining these
systems.
1-128. The company contains a small CP support team responsible for establishing primary CP voice and
video capabilities for the brigade. It also contains multiple retransmission teams to provide extended range
to brigade-level radio networks.

Forward Support Companies
1-129. FSCs in CABs are organic to the aviation battalions and squadrons. The FSC has a distribution platoon
and maintenance platoon. The distribution platoon establishes and operates FARPs for aircraft. The
maintenance platoon conducts field maintenance for aviation battalion ground support equipment. Figure 1-3
depicts the organization of an ASB. For additional information on the ASB and FSCs refer to ATP 3-04.7.

Figure 1-3. Aviation support battalion

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

17

Chapter 1

MULTI-DOMAIN TASK FORCE
1-130. The MDTF is a theater-level maneuver element designed to synchronize precision effects and
precision fires in all domains against adversary anti-access/area denial networks, enabling joint forces to
execute their operational plan-directed roles.
1-131. The BSB synchronizes and integrates logistics and AHS support for the MDTF. The BSB is designed
with an HHC, distribution company, FMC, medical company, and FSCs. The BSB provides field
maintenance and operates an SSA, an MATP, and a Role 2 medical facility.
Note. Only one MDTF configuration has a BSB. In the other configurations, the MDTF is
supported by a brigade support company.

Headquarters and Headquarters Company
1-132. The BSB HHC consists of the command group, coordinating staff, and headquarters company. It
provides command and control and administrative and logistics support for all organic, assigned, and attached
units. The staff executes planning and synchronization for all assigned and attached units in the BSB. The
BSB can also provide command and control for all units that occupy the BSA for security.

Distribution Company
1-133. The BSB distribution company consists of a headquarters element, transportation platoon, supply
platoon, and a fuel and water platoon. The transportation platoon conducts distribution operations. The supply
platoon operates an SSA and MATP. The fuel and water platoon provides petroleum support and water
support operations. The distribution company is normally located in the BSA with subordinate elements
operating throughout the MDTF’s assigned area.

Field Maintenance Company
1-134. The FMC provides field-level maintenance support to the MDTF. The FMC consists of a company
headquarters and a maintenance platoon. It provides repair capability for automotive, ground support
equipment, communications and electronics, land combat missile systems, and armament systems. The
company provides services including welding and machine shop support and recovery support. The FMC
also provides limited field-level maintenance reinforcement support to the FSCs for low-density equipment
such as communications, electronics, and missile and armament equipment. The BSB typically employs the
FMC in the BSA.

Forward Support Company
1-135. The role of the FSC is to provide field feeding, field maintenance, and distribution support to the
MDTF. The FSC provides the MDTF commander with dedicated logistics assets organized to meet the unit's
requirements. The FSCs provide the MDTF, battalion, and BSB commanders flexibility for providing
logistics support. FSCs provide the BSB commander the ability to task-organize and prioritize the logistics
effort to support operations.
1-136. The FSCs are attached to the MDTF’s BSB and may be attached to or under the operational control
of the supported battalion for a limited duration, a mission, or a phase of an operation. The decision to
establish these types of command relationships is made by the MDTF commander upon the advice of the
BSB commander after a thorough mission analysis.

Multi-Domain Task Force Medical Company
1-137. The MDTF medical company provides Role 1 and 2 medical support for the MDTF and area medical
support for units in the BSA that do not have organic medical assets. The capabilities of the company mirror
those of the other BSMCs, with the addition of a trauma quick reaction force. The trauma quick reaction
force provides damage control resuscitation, which includes initial burn management and trauma
resuscitation (such as blood products, parenteral fluids, advanced airway management, and

18

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Brigade Support Battalion

intravenous/intraosseous/central line placement). The trauma quick reaction force can also provide limited
ancillary services with point of care imaging (such as ultrasound) to assist with initial assessment and ongoing
patient treatment and management. For additional information on the on the MDTF medical company, refer
to ATP 4-02.6.

SUPPORT BATTALIONS OF FUNCTIONAL BRIGADES
1-138. Functional support brigades are tasked organized under corps and division control, enabling them to
conduct large-scale combat operations. Functional support brigades can include engineer, medical, military
intelligence, military police, and air defense artillery brigades. Functional brigades provide a single function
or capability and can support the theater, corps, or division depending on their design.
1-139. The following functional brigades do not have a BSB—
• Air defense artillery.
• Medical.
• Military intelligence.
• Military police.
1-140. Air defense artillery and maneuver enhancement brigades are supported by FSCs. The medical,
military intelligence, and military police brigades are supported by appropriate theater-level assets, normally
in the form of a CSSB.

ENGINEER BRIGADE
1-141. Engineer brigades do not have organic BSBs. They are supported by BSBs which are organic to the
DSB and operate in direct support of the engineer brigade. BSBs which support engineer brigades will be
identified and task organized based on mission variables and the type of engineer brigade they are supporting.

SECURITY FORCE ASSISTANCE BRIGADE
1-142. The security force assistance brigade (SFAB) conducts worldwide security force assistance operations
at the operational and tactical level. SFABs help develop the capability and capacity of partnered security
forces through security cooperation activities to strengthen a host government's ability to defend itself from
external and internal threats. SFAB employment allows brigades to focus on combined arms maneuver and
prevents the breaking up of brigades to execute security cooperation activities. For more information about
SFABs, refer to ATP 3-96.1.
1-143. The SFAB has an organic sustainment advising battalion that advises, supports, liaises with, and
assists foreign security forces in sustainment operations and provides limited logistics and medical support
to an SFAB depending on theater assets available. The sustainment advising battalion has two core
competencies. The first is to provide foreign security force sustainment units with training on individual,
unit, and leader tasks, and advise and assist in operations planning, synchronization, and execution. The
second is planning, synchronizing, and executing sustainment support for SFAB operations.
1-144. The sustainment advising battalion has limited capability to perform the following functions:
distribution operations, field-level maintenance, and Role 1 medical care for the SFAB. The battalion also
has a surgeon to evaluate supported foreign security force medical officers, medical care, and evacuation
capabilities. Figure 1-4 on page 20 depicts the organization of the SFAB sustainment advising battalion.
1-145. The sustainment advising battalion can operate at the tactical level in a potentially dispersed area of
operations. The battalion and its organic units may be tasked to operate in smaller sections, decentralized and
under the operational control of other government entities including the American Embassy chief of mission
or the Army Service component command.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

19

Chapter 1

Figure 1-4. Security force assistance brigade sustainment advising battalion
1-146. The SFAB nests with established traditional Army sustainment systems and distribution networks
when operating within a designated joint operations area. The sustainment advising battalion can coordinate
required sustainment support through an expeditionary sustainment command, and typically receives that
support from a DSSB, CSSB, or another brigade’s BSB in the joint operations area.
1-147. When operating outside of a designated joint operations area, the SFAB may not have traditional
Army sustainment systems and distribution networks to rely on for sustainment support. With no other
conventional forces in the operations area, the sustainment advising battalion must coordinate sustainment
support through the Army Service component command, host-nation support agency (if an agreement is in
place), directly with the Defense Logistics Agency, or American Embassy. The sustainment advising
battalion must coordinate with one of these entities for the resupply of all classes of supply, medical
evacuation, maintenance support, field feeding, finance, postal, and any other type of support required.

20

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Chapter 2

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions
This chapter is presented in three sections. The first section identifies and describes the BSB
command group and staff. Section two discusses CP operations and the warfighting functions.
Section three discusses the BSA.

SECTION I – COMMAND AND STAFF
2-1. The BSB headquarters consists of the command group, coordinating staff, and headquarters company.
The BSB provides command and control for all organic and attached units. It also provides administrative
and logistics support to units organic or assigned to the BSB. The staff conducts planning, provides direction,
and oversees logistics operations for all assigned and attached units in its supported brigade. The BSB can
also execute command and control for all units in the BSA for security and terrain management.

COMMAND GROUP
2-2. The BSB command group consists of the commander, command sergeant major, executive officer, unit
ministry team (also known as UMT), and coordinating staff. The command group exercises command and
control for the battalion, directs the coordinating staff, and manages commander's critical information
requirements. Refer to ADP 5-0 and FM 6-0.

COMMANDER
2-3. The BSB commander is the brigade's senior logistician and is responsible for sustainment
synchronization and execution across the brigade area of operations. The commander, supported by the staff,
uses the operations process to drive the conceptual and detailed planning necessary to understand, visualize,
and describe the OE; make and articulate decisions; and direct, lead, and assess sustainment operations. The
BSB commander executes the brigade sustainment concept of support and advises the brigade commander
on all aspects of sustainment.
2-4. As the senior logistics commander responsible for sustaining the brigade, the BSB commander must
retain the ability to surge, mass, and reallocate logistics capabilities according to the brigade commander’s
intent and concept of the operation. The BSB commander makes recommendations to the brigade commander
on the task organization for support.

COMMAND SERGEANT MAJOR
2-5. The BSB command sergeant major is the senior enlisted member of the BSB and a member of the
commander's personal staff. Command sergeants major have a critical role in mentoring both subordinate
organizations and the staff; they provide expertise, present experience, and instill morale. The commander
sergeant major carries out policies, enforces standards, and advises the commander on the performance,
training, appearance, and conduct of enlisted Soldiers. The command sergeant major provides technical and
tactical advice to the commander and staff on training and the planning, preparation, execution, and
assessment of battalion operations.

EXECUTIVE OFFICER
2-6. The BSB executive officer is the commander's chief of staff. The executive officer directs, coordinates,
supervises, trains, and synchronizes the work of the staff and ensures effective and prompt staff actions. The
executive officer must understand the commander's intent and ensure the BSB staff implements it. The
executive officer provides the commander with the tools to visualize, describe, direct, and assess operations.
Duties include monitoring the status of all subordinate units and ensuring that their status is provided to the
BSB commander.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

21

Chapter 2

UNIT MINISTRY TEAM
2-7. A chaplain leads the unit ministry team. The chaplain is a member of the BSB commander's personal
staff. The unit ministry team consists of the chaplain and a religious affairs specialist. The unit ministry team
provides religious support to the battalion and advises the commander on all religious, moral, ethical, and
morale issues that impact operations.
2-8. The chaplain advises the commander on matters of religion, morals, and morale as affected by religion,
and on the impact of indigenous religions on military operations. The unit ministry team provides area and
denominational religious support per the brigade religious support plan under the technical supervision of the
brigade chaplain. For additional information on the unit ministry team, refer to FM 3-83.

COORDINATING STAFF
2-9. The coordinating staff is a key enabler of the command and control warfighting function within the BSB.
The staff's primary role is to support the commander. It assists the commander in understanding, visualizing,
and describing the OE; making decisions; directing and leading subordinate units; and assessing the
effectiveness of BSB operations. The staff maintains the common operational picture. The BSB staff includes
the S-1, S-2, S-3, S-4, S-6, and SPO sections.

S-1 SECTION
2-10. The S-1 serves as the battalion’s principal staff officer for all matters concerning human resources and
other issues affecting the health, morale, and welfare of the battalion. S-1 responsibilities include personnel
manning, casualty operations, personnel services, and personnel support. The BSB S-1 reports to the brigade
S-1 on personnel manning and accountability to coordinate replacements throughout the organization (refer
to FM 4-1).

S-2 SECTION
2-11. The S-2 is the principal staff officer responsible for providing intelligence to support current and future
operations and plans. The S-2 section gathers and analyzes information on the mission variables for the
commander, subordinate commanders, and staff. Examples of critical S-2 section input to operations include
analysis regarding how weather affects main supply routes (MSRs), and the impact enemy’s tactics have on
convoys, supply routes, and logistics release points (LRPs). The S-2 section develops a means to collect,
analyze, and disseminate information from battalion personnel returning from convoy operations and other
support missions.

S-3 SECTION
2-12. The S-3 serves as the battalion’s principal staff officer for coordinating and synchronizing operations.
The S-3 integrates and synchronizes all warfighting functions across the planning horizons in current
operations, future operations, and plans integrating cells. The S-3 authenticates all plans and orders for the
commander to ensure units synchronize all functions in time, space, and purpose in accordance with the
commander’s intent and planning guidance. Refer to ADP 5-0 and FM 6-0.

S-4 SECTION
2-13. The BSB S-4 serves as the battalion’s principal staff officer for BSB internal logistics. The S-4
coordinates supply support operations, munitions operations, maintenance operations, petroleum supply
operations, field service operations, and transportation operations for the battalion. The BSB S-4 is
responsible for consolidating and preparing the logistics status (LOGSTAT) report for the brigade S-4 and
coordinating with higher headquarters to facilitate sustainment.

S-6 SECTION
2-14. The S-6 serves as the battalion’s principal staff officer for all matters concerning communications
within the command. This section is responsible for Department of Defense information network operations
and applicable portions of defensive cyberspace operations, network transport, information services,
spectrum management operations, and information management. Additional information on the S-6 section
can be found in FM 6-0 and FM 6-02.

22

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

SUPPORT OPERATIONS
2-15. The battalion SPO is the principal staff officer responsible for planning, preparing, executing, and
assessing sustainment operations for the brigade. This includes supply, distribution, maintenance, and
medical support. The SPO officer is assigned to the BSB and is not part of the brigade staff. However, the
SPO officer serves as the principal staff officer responsible for synchronizing BSB sustainment operations
for all units assigned or attached to the brigade. The BSB SPO works closely with the brigade executive
officer, S-4, and surgeon to ensure successful planning and execution of the sustainment plan.
2-16. The SPO section performs mid-range planning and develops the BSB concept of operations to support
the brigade. It works closely with the BSB S-3, brigade S-3 and S-4, and supported battalion S-4s to
coordinate future support requirements and locations with supported units. As required, SPO personnel
collocate with the brigade S-4 to execute concurrent planning operations and develop the logistics estimate
and support plans for future operations.
2-17. The SPO develops associated logistics annexes to all plans and orders, anticipates and forecasts
requirements for support, and maintains the running estimate. The SPO section takes information from the
distribution system to create a synchronized picture of the flow of units, personnel, and materiel into and
throughout the brigade area. Materiel refers to all items necessary to equip, operate, maintain, and support
military activities without distinction as to its application for administrative or combat purposes (JP 4-0). The
SPO staff's structure varies slightly by BSB type. Figure 2-1 depicts the typical organization of a BSB SPO
staff.

Figure 2-1. Brigade support battalion support operations section

Transportation Section
2-18. The transportation section develops movement plans to support distribution requirements. It plans for
and coordinates the employment of organic and attached assets to meet mission requirements. The
transportation section channels information to the transportation officer to allow for overall coordination,
prioritization, and decision-making by the SPO. The section also coordinates with the brigade S-4 mobility
warrant.

Medical Operations
2-19. The BSB SPO medical team is the principal staff team responsible for synchronizing both force health
protection and health service support operations for the brigade. It primarily focuses on the preparation and
execution of AHS support operations in the short-range planning horizon. The BSB SPO medical team
prepares detailed health and medical input to operation plans and fragmentary orders for the SPO.
2-20. The BSB SPO medical team concentrates on medical operations and coordinating the distribution of
Class VIII for the brigade. It coordinates the ordering, receipt, and distribution of Class VIIIA (medical
materiel and medical device repair parts) through GCSS-Army, and Class VIIIB (blood and blood products).
The BSB SPO medical team coordinates with the BSMC to ensure Class VIII visibility, casualty reporting,

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

23

Chapter 2

and that the medical common operating picture is accurate and timely across the brigade. For additional
information on the BSB SPO medical section, refer to ATP 4-02.6.

Ammunition Section
2-21. The BSB SPO is responsible for planning and coordinating ammunition support to the brigade. The
brigade S-4 consolidates and prioritizes ammunition requirements for the brigade and communicates this
information to the BSB SPO. The ammunition officer in the SPO maintains direct liaison with the supported
battalion’s S-3, S-4, and FSC commander.

Maintenance Section
2-22. SPO maintenance management personnel provide maintenance oversight of the FMC and FSC
maintenance sections. They also plan and forecast maintenance and related Class IX requirements based on
future operational plans and coordinate the disposal of enemy equipment. The duties and responsibilities of
the maintenance management personnel include—
• Working with the division logistics support element for logistics assistance representative support.
• Coordinating external maintenance and recovery support when required.
• Coordinating field service representative support as required or forecasted.
• Monitoring brigade LOGSTAT reporting and equipment readiness levels.
• Perform materiel management tasks known as Execution Management in GCSS-Army.

Mortuary Affairs Section
2-23. The SPO includes a mortuary affairs NCO who has a wide range of responsibilities. This NCO trains
subordinate units on unit-level human remains recovery tasks, which includes search and recovery, tentative
identification, preserving human remains, and safeguarding personal effects. The mortuary affairs NCO also
coordinates with the sustainment brigade and mortuary affairs units in the area to synchronize the evacuation
of the brigade’s remains and to understand the higher echelon mortuary affairs concept of operations.
2-24. Additional mortuary affairs responsibilities include—
• Planning the employment of assigned mortuary affairs assets.
• Providing advice to commanders on mortuary affairs assets operations.
• Developing and reviewing operational plans for military operations.
• Preparing mortuary affairs map overlays.
• Identifying mission requirements versus on-hand assets.
• Allocating and prioritizing mortuary affairs assets.
• Identifying temporary interment sites.
• Developing the evacuation flowchart.
• Providing support to attached mortuary affairs units.
2-25. For more information on BSB mortuary affairs, refer to ATP 4-46.

Supply and Field Services
2-26. The SPO coordinates field service support for the brigade as required. This includes shower, laundry,
water purification, aerial delivery, and mortuary affairs. Based upon brigade requirements, the SPO
coordinates with the DSB for support. The SPO, based on guidance from the brigade S-3 and S-4, identifies
locations for field service site establishment.
2-27. The BSB SPO is responsible for supporting all brigade supply requirements. The brigade S-4
determines and prioritizes supply requirements for the brigade and communicates this information to the
SPO. SPO supply personnel, including petroleum and ammunition sections, perform supply materiel
management functions to ensure adequate supply stocks are available to meet brigade requirements. The SPO
supply personnel perform the following materiel management functions: supply planning, requirements
validation, asset visibility, asset reporting, resupply, stock control, warehousing, and supply and retrograde
of munitions. The supply personnel also coordinate with the transportation personnel in the SPO for
distribution of supplies to the FSCs.

24

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

2-28. Supporting maneuver brigade Class III(B) requirements, especially armored brigades, requires
disciplined management of limited BSB Class III(B) distribution assets. This includes maintaining visibility
of FSC Class III(B) assets and having the authority to cross-level or redirect the FSC assets if required. Close
coordination with the brigade S-4 and FSC commanders is imperative. The brigade S-4 must fully understand
the brigade’s support requirements and priorities. Accurate and timely Class III(B) LOGSTAT reporting
from using units and FSCs is critical to understand actual requirements. The SPO must communicate
forecasted Class III(B) requirements to the DSB to ensure the DSB has adequate Class III(B) stocks on hand
to support brigade requirements. The SPO also coordinates with the DSB for Class III(B) distribution
reinforcement, if required.

Sustainment Automation Support Management Office
2-29. The BSB sustainment automation support management office (SASMO) executes division-directed
sustainment automation policy for the brigade. The SASMO role consists of two parts: network
administration and systems administration. Network administration involves installing and maintaining the
sustainment transport system (video, voice, and data) consisting of local area networks, wide area networks,
routers, transmission systems, and the physical layer network. Systems administration involves updating
software, troubleshooting (Tier 0 and Tier 1), and other technical support for select enterprise business
systems.
2-30. Sustainment network connectivity enables delivery of logistics, personnel services, financial
management, and AHS services. SASMOs install, operate, and secure the sustainment transport system (also
known as STS). SASMO personnel also provide technical and functional troubleshooting assistance to the
supported units.
2-31. SASMO personnel coordinate with the S-6 to integrate into the brigade communications and
electromagnetic warfare plan to ensure security and use of its vital functions. ATP 4-0.6 provides additional
information regarding SASMO operations.
Note. SASMOs do not perform hardware maintenance as the personnel are not trained in computer
or communication equipment repair.

SECTION II – COMMAND POSTS
2-32. The BSB commander establishes a CP where most of the staff plans, prepares, executes, and assesses
sustainment operations. A CP is a unit headquarters where the commander and staff perform their activities.
CPs help commanders understand, visualize, describe, direct, lead, and assess operations.
2-33. The BSB executive officer is in charge of CP operations. In this role, the executive officer provides
oversight and supervises the staff in the CP. The executive officer’s duties include but are not limited to—
• Coordinating and directing the work of the staff.
• Establishing and monitoring the CP battle rhythm and nesting with higher and subordinate
headquarters’ battle rhythms for effective planning support, decision making, and other critical
functions.
• Formulating and disseminating staff policies.
• Ensuring effective liaison exchanges with higher, lower, and adjacent units and other organizations
as required.
• Supervising the sustainment of the CP and activities of the HHC.
• Supervising staff training for CP operations.
2-34. CPs operate around the clock. Battle captains and operations NCOs maintain communications,
coordination, and information management. The battle captain maintains awareness of the situation two
echelons down and the activities of adjacent units. The operations NCO must have a working knowledge of
all elements in the CP, understand the unit’s standard operating procedures (SOPs), and ensure that the staff
uses them. Functions of the CP include but are not limited to—
• Controlling and synchronizing current battalion internal operations.
• Controlling and synchronizing sustainment support operations.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

25

Chapter 2

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Monitoring and assessing current operations for their impact on future operations.
Assessing the overall progress and effectiveness of operations.
Preparing reports required by higher headquarters and receiving reports from subordinate units.
Maintaining running estimates.
Planning and controlling operations.
Developing and disseminating orders.
Coordinating with higher, lower, and adjacent units.
Executing knowledge management and information management.
Performing network operations.
Maintaining the common operational picture.
Performing CP administration (for example, sleep plans, security, and feeding schedules).
Supporting the commander's decision-making process.
Consolidating commander’s critical information requirements.
Integrating warfighting functions with sustainment operations.
Determining the follow-on BSA base or base cluster locations to displace to and communicating
that location to higher, lower, and adjacent units.

2-35. Within the CP, the BSB S-3 maintains focus on current operations, covers near-term future operations
as necessary, and maintains the common operating picture. The SPO section in the CP may focus on future
operations and plans (for example coordination for mortuary affairs support).
2-36. The commander considers the size, location, and mobility requirements of the CP, as well as mission
variables, then configures it based on unit SOP.
2-37. The BSB headquarters must be capable of deploying, constructing, camouflaging, operating,
echeloning, positioning, and displacing CPs rapidly to enhance survivability during operations. The CP must
consider their electromagnetic signature and actively or passively reduce detection.

SECTION III – BRIGADE SUPPORT AREA
2-38. This section provides an overview of the BSA and describes the fundamentals, operations, and
considerations for the establishment, operation, security, and displacement of bases in the BSA. The BSA is
a designated area of operations in which sustainment elements locate to provide logistics and medical support
to the brigade.

BRIGADE SUPPORT AREA OPERATIONS
2-39. A support area is where units position, employ, and protect base sustainment assets and lines of
communications required to sustain, enable, and control operations. Support area operations are a critical part
of rear operations. The BSA is a designated area where sustainment elements locate to provide support to a
brigade. The BSA typically encompasses a unit base or base cluster, landing/pickup zones, and field trains
elements. The BSB is responsible for protecting the BSA from level I and II threats using organic equipment.
2-40. The BSB occupies and controls the BSA. BSA control requires performing area security and stability
tasks, employing and clearing fires, and managing airspace users. The BSB will require brigade staff
augmentation to control fires and manage airspace. During planning, the brigade is responsible for integrating
airspace users in the unit airspace plan to enable procedural control. During execution, the brigade
coordinates airspace users’ activities with the airspace control element assigned that volume of airspace.

SITE SELECTION
2-41. Many factors govern BSA site selection, and all should be considered when establishing the BSA.
Planners analyze mission variables to conduct mission analysis, which includes site selection. Site selection
is based on—
• Mission support requirements.
• Enemy proximity to the forward area, stability of the rear area, and security of the BSA.
• Terrain, including vertical and horizontal lines of communication and trafficability.
• Troops and equipment occupying the battalion field trains and BSA.

26

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

•
•

Time constraints for movement to the forward area.
Civil considerations such as civilians in the area, structures, capabilities, organizations, people, and
events (commonly known as ASCOPE) that identify major population centers and civilians on the
battlefield or transiting lines of communications. (For more information on civil considerations,
refer to ATP 3-57.60.)

2-42. The BSA is normally located near an MSR. It is large enough to allow adequate space for unit
occupation and to execute sustainment operations, but not too large to hinder effective security and control.
If line-of-sight communications are required, the site terrain must be conducive to it.
2-43. Commanders evaluate the worthiness of a site with respect to mission accomplishment and then
consider camouflage, concealment, and survivability. Ideally, the BSA is out of the range of the enemy’s
medium-range artillery.
2-44. Dispersion requirements often dictate the size of a site. A site has limited usefulness if it will not permit
enough dispersion for survivability and effective operations. Support assets from a DSSB should be able to
maneuver through the traffic pattern without causing an unnecessary massing of vehicles. When using a base
cluster, units try to position individual bases far enough away from each other to reduce the BSA’s
detectability by enemy sensory equipment, yet still within supporting distance of each other for security and
sustainment purposes.

ESTABLISHMENT AND OCCUPATION
2-45. The establishment and occupation of a BSA is deliberately planned and executed. During initial
planning, the brigade staff and the BSB staff perform a map reconnaissance of the proposed brigade area of
operations. During this reconnaissance, the staffs identify the area for the initial BSA, planned base locations
in the BSA, and unit occupation of the bases. All units that will occupy the BSA use this information to plan
initial establishment and occupation. Similar actions occur for brigade movement and subsequent BSA
establishment and occupation.
2-46. Upon arrival at the brigade area of operations, the BSB uses quartering party operations for initial
occupation. The quartering party is key to the initial establishment of the BSA. The purpose of the quartering
party is to verify the site selection of the BSA and make limited preparations for receiving units that occupy
the BSA. It consists of representatives from the BSB S-3, S-2, and SPO sections. The quartering party is
typically a small portion of each unit empowered by its commander to establish locations for personnel and
equipment. Depending on the units that will be located in the BSA, the quartering party may also contain
elements of the brigade CP, each maneuver battalion’s field trains, and attached units. If a single base is used
to contain all units in the BSA, the quartering party locates that base position. If a base cluster is used, the
quartering party locates each base position. The arrival of the quartering party is the first opportunity to see
the terrain and adjust the BSA layout and defenses as necessary.
2-47. The quartering party begins its priorities of work upon arrival at the BSA site. Priority of work is a set
method of determining the precedence of tasks when establishing a new location and conducting a defense
of a location such as the BSA. The unit SOP will dictate the exact steps in the BSB priorities of work. The
commander may change priorities based on the situation and mission variables, but establishing security
should be the first and primary task. Although listed in sequence, the BSB may perform several tasks in their
priorities of work at the same time. An example priority of work sequence follows:
• Post local security.
• Check for CBRN contamination and unexploded ordnance.
• Set and then maintain a designated level of security.
• Establish tactical voice communications.
• Establish listening posts and observation posts.
• Position crew-served weapons and assign sectors of fire.
• Position subordinate units and other assets.
• Prepare hasty fighting positions.
• Establish the CP.
• Clear fields of fire and prepare standard range cards and sector sketches.
• Emplace early warning devices.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

27

Chapter 2

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Modify hasty fighting positions to deliberate fighting positions as the enemy situation allows.
Install wire communications, if applicable.
Emplace obstacles and mines.
Mark (or improve marking for) target reference points and direct fire-control measures.
Improve primary fighting positions.
Prepare alternate and supplementary positions.
Conduct maintenance (specifically, weapons and communications equipment).
Establish reconnaissance and surveillance.
Establish sleep and rest plans.
Reconnoiter movements and routes (for example, trafficability and timing).
Rehearse engagements and disengagements or displacements.
Adjust positions and control measures as required.
Stockpile ammunition, food, and water.
Dig trenches between positions. Continue to improve positions (for example, replace camouflage if
it changes color or dries out).
Develop a plan to manage potential civilian interactions and consider a location for establishing a
civil-military operations center. Request the allocation of a civil affairs team from the brigade’s
attached civil affairs company.

2-48. The quartering party establishes initial communications to begin the transfer of command and control
from a tactical assembly area, intermediate staging base, or previous BSA to the new BSA location. The
quartering party establishes a tactical CP. Commanders employ the tactical CP as an extension of the main
CP. The functions of a tactical CP typically include the following:
• Controlling the overall unit’s operations for a limited time when the main CP is displacing or
otherwise not available.
• Controlling a specific task within larger operations such as the establishment of a BSA, a gap
crossing, a passage of lines, a relief in place, or air assault operations.
• Providing a forward location for issuing orders and performing rehearsals.
• Controlling decisive or specific shaping operations.
• Performing short-range planning.
• Contributing to future operations planning.
2-49. The tactical CP also continues to plan the positioning of units in the BSA and begins to outline the base
perimeter in more detail than the original plans. Representatives of maneuver battalion field trains and other
units begin preparations for occupation, which include selecting sites for crew-served weapons. The tactical
CP reports to the BSB CP when it is prepared to begin operations. It also relays any information the
commander will need to change movement plans.
2-50. After the quartering party, the commander divides the other elements of the BSA into serials to perform
a tactical road march to the new site. The BSB S-3 divides these vehicle movements into the advance party,
main body, and a trail party. The main body begins the move in accordance with the operation order issued
by the BSB main CP and the unit’s tactical SOP. The BSB S-3 plans the movement of the BSA’s main body
echelons by serial. The BSB planners should not include an entire BSB subordinate company's sustainment
capability in a single serial; loss of a serial would eliminate all the BSB’s capability in a functional area.
Additionally, if an entire company is moving at the same time, it will have difficulty maintaining continuity
of support.

LAYOUT
2-51. The BSB commander and the brigade S-3 collaborate to determine if the elements in the BSA should
occupy a single large base or a cluster of smaller bases. The commander considers the advantages and
disadvantages of each option. There are some advantages to using a base cluster:
• Increased dispersion helps to mitigate indirect fires.
• Displacement can be expedited with smaller, more mobile clusters.
• It can prevent total loss of a single asset or commodity from enemy action.
• It can facilitate greater concealment.

28

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

•
•

It allows for a larger selection of potential occupation sites.
It may enable greater flexibility to position assets forward to extend operational reach.

2-52. There are also some disadvantages to using a base cluster:
• It increases command and control complexity with communications architecture and location of key
leaders.
• It presents more challenging security problem with a smaller quantity of personnel and weapons and
a greater need for coordination.
• Field trains command post (FTCP) integration becomes more challenging.
2-53. Terrain features, terrain patterns, natural concealment, and soil composition must be considered from
both practical and security points of view. Bases must be located in areas suitable to execute sustainment
operations as well as being defensible. A key factor to consider is whether operations will disturb the terrain
pattern enough to make it discernable to enemy surveillance. The goal is not to disturb the terrain pattern at
all. Another consideration is the balance of personnel resources dedicated to performing security versus
mission tasks. The BSB commander will develop an informed recommendation and present the
recommendation to the brigade commander, who ultimately decides on the best option to support operations.

Single Base Operations
2-54. If a single large base is used, the BSB commander will control the base and determine unit placement
within the base. The BSB HHC and A, B, and C companies occupy the base. In addition, elements from the
brigade staff, the brigade alternate CP, engineer assets, signal assets, medical enablers, field trains, and
sustainment units from higher headquarters may occupy the base. Depending on mission variables, there
could also be elements from United States Army Materiel Command present. Units occupying the BSA will
change in accordance with the brigade mission and task organization. The brigade commander may place
attached elements in the BSA during certain phases of an operation or for its duration. For additional
information on echelon above brigade enablers operating in the BSA, refer to ATP 4-91.
2-55. A single base is advantageous in terms of simplified command and control and perimeter security.
However, a single base containing the number of units that reside in the BSA will be very large and easily
detected by enemy reconnaissance. A single base simplifies targeting and attack by enemy artillery, attack
aircraft, and ground forces. It also puts a significant portion of the brigade sustainment and support structure
at risk from a single attack.
2-56. Locations of elements in the base will vary depending on mission variables. The BSB commander and
S-3 use their best judgment in positioning BSB units and assigning sectors for security of the BSB portion of
the base. Troop safety guidelines also influence unit placement. The MATP is often outside the base due to
net explosive weight distance factors.
2-57. In addition to staff elements and units, there are multiple supply points associated with the base. The
distribution company has an SSA, a fuel point, Class I breakbulk point, and an MATP in addition to a convoy
staging area. The FMC may establish an MCP, and the BSMC establishes its Role 2 MTFs. If the sustainment
brigade provides transportation or water purification support, those units will also need space for a water
point and truck parking in or adjacent to the BSA.
2-58. Consider the following when locating units and commodities within the base:
• Make supply points accessible to both customers and resupply vehicles and helicopters. Keep Class
III points away from supplies and at least 100 feet from water sources to prevent contamination.
• Locate the medical treatment areas away from likely target areas (such as the MATP, Class III point,
and road junctions).
• Ensure evacuation routes and an open area for landing air ambulances are readily accessible by
medical personnel.
• Position the MATP near, but off, the MSR so that resupply vehicles bringing ammunition into the
area do not block the MSR. The MATP requires sufficient area to perform transload operations
without interfering with traffic.
• If possible, establish separate entry and exit entry control points to control the flow of traffic for the
base.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

29

Chapter 2

•
•
•

Position CPs near the center of the base for command and control, data and voice connectivity, and
security reasons.
Position units with greatest firepower (such as the maintenance company) along the most threatening
avenues of approach.
Plan for local civilians to approach and cluster at the BSA. Locate the civil-military operations
center, if established, at a position that will not impede military traffic access and will mitigate risk
of hostile actions.

2-59. The BSB commander and S-3 section shift security responsibilities as tenant units enter and leave the
base. The BSB CP SOP covers the overall base layout with and without the presence of FSC personnel and
battalion FTCPs.
2-60. Figure 2-2 depicts an example of a notional BSA layout with a single base and company sectors.

Figure 2-2. Notional brigade support area layout

Base Cluster Operations
2-61. If a base cluster is used, the BSB commander controls the BSA from the battalion main CP, executes
terrain management to locate a base for each element in the BSA, and designates a unit responsible for
controlling each base. Security, communications capability, proximity to road network, and other factors
influence base placement.
2-62. Base cluster dispersion complicates enemy detection and targeting. A base cluster spreads sustainment
and support assets over a larger geographic area that minimizes the effects of artillery, air, or ground attack.
However, a base cluster complicates command and control and perimeter security. Each base requires
perimeter defense to allow adequate and mutual protection of other bases. This is accomplished while
minimizing the likelihood of striking an adjacent base with small arms fire.

30

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

2-63. BSA clusters can be arrayed by unit, or by commodities and assets. One common technique is to cluster
by distribution package to increase the survivability of assets. For example, a distribution company may have
a main base and then a couple of other smaller bases with LOGPACs located in each.
2-64. The number of bases in a cluster may increase until command and control is no longer viable; as the
number of bases within a cluster increase, command and control and asset visibility become more complex
and difficult. Commanders should train to increase the number of cluster bases from one to two, and so on;
and only progress in division when command and control is accurately achieved of the current set and size.
The goal is good dispersion, concealment, and fast displacement, not self-imposed command and control
complexity.
2-65. Base cluster considerations include—
• Coordinating with tenant and transient units, subordinate base clusters, adjacent base camps, and
higher headquarters.
• Establishing a reasonable span of control based on the number and echelon of tenant and transient
units or subordinate base clusters.
• Transporting personnel, equipment, supplies, and waste in the bases and between base camps in the
cluster as part of base camp functions, services, and support.
• Planning for local civilians to approach and gather around the base cluster. Locate the civil-military
operations center, if established, at a position that will not impede military traffic access and will
mitigate risk of hostile actions. If establishing one is not feasible, ensure that the plan for
management of civilians is clearly understood by all.
2-66. A base cluster often lacks a well-defined perimeter or established access points. Although individual
bases in the cluster maintain perimeter security, entry, and access control, security requires more personnel
than with a single base. Figure 2-3 depicts an example layout of a notional BSA using a base cluster to support
a brigade rather than a large single base.

Figure 2-3. Notional brigade support area layout using a base cluster

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

31

Chapter 2

THREAT CONSIDERATIONS
2-67. Adversaries seek to establish conditions that limit or prevent the United States and its allies access to a
region, typically in locations close to their borders. This includes forward positioning layered and integrated
air defenses, early warning surveillance radars, rocket artillery, electromagnetic warfare capabilities, and
counter-space capabilities. Adversaries may also seek to position missiles, fixed-wing aircraft, unmanned
aircraft systems, or naval surface and subsurface forces to shape an OE in their favor. Positioning systems
that support an anti-access strategy will allow adversaries to deny or disrupt U.S. access to a region in the
event of hostilities while providing leverage against friendly partner nations with the potential use of force.
Furthermore, the positioning of systems capable of delivering conventional and CBRN munitions creates
additional challenges for the United States. An adversary’s ability to establish, maintain, and demonstrate
robust anti-access systems bolsters its domestic narratives while eroding partner nation trust and confidence.
(FM 3-0)
2-68. Friendly forces must assume they are always under observation due to all the means available to a peer
adversary, particularly those available in space and cyberspace. In addition to forward positioning capabilities
that support anti-access and area denial approaches, these adversaries seek understanding of the disposition,
readiness, and activities of U.S. forces within a contested region. Adversary activities include reconnaissance
of U.S. military installations, unit movements, ports of embarkation and debarkation, and staging areas to
identify potential targets for ballistic missiles and long-range fires. Adversaries employ cyberspace tools to
conduct reconnaissance of friendly networks to identify vulnerabilities for possible exploitation. An
adversary may conduct probing actions in the air and maritime domains to test responses by United States
and other friendly forces. The intelligence gained through these activities will prepare an adversary for
hostilities in the event a situation escalates to armed conflict. Refer to FM 3-0 for specific examples on how
anti-access and area denial may be employed against friendly and U.S. forces.
2-69. Commanders may choose to take additional steps to enhance survivability. Commanders may utilize
techniques including—
• Dividing the BSA in two equal parts with each site having redundant capabilities.
• Dispersing companies between multiple sites.
• Combining BSB companies into multifunctional elements enabling greater dispersion while
maintaining capability.
2-70. Each technique involves making tradeoffs. Dividing the BSA into two equal parts with each site having
redundant capabilities still incurs a large footprint. Dispersing singular companies to their own sites maintains
command and control, but it increases risk for commodity or capability asset loss. Dispersing company assets
between multiple sites or evenly spreading assets and capabilities between multiples sites reduces risk to loss
of equipment, but it increases the complexity of command and control. Commanders use mission variables
to determine the proper base cluster configuration for each situation.

BRIGADE SUPPORT AREA SECURITY
2-71. Security operations undertaken by a commander provide early and accurate warning of enemy
operations. The unit uses this to react to the enemy and to develop the situation to prevent surprise. In the
BSA, units execute local and area security.
2-72. Area security neutralizes or defeats enemy operations in a specified area. It includes counterreconnaissance and security of personnel, airfields/landing zones, facilities, MSRs, lines of communications,
equipment, and critical points. For additional information on area security, refer to ADP 3-37.
2-73. The BSB is responsible for its own local security against level I and II threats. The brigade may provide
a tactical combat force to augment the BSB for defense against level III threats.
2-74. Local security actions are those that are an inherent part of self-protection and mission assurance
measures. Local security consists of base perimeter security, observation and listening posts, local security
patrols, access control, barriers, a reserve of personnel to augment perimeter security, and other measures to
provide security for a base. Every unit assigned a base or collocated on a base with another unit has local
security responsibility.

32

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

2-75. The BSB commander is responsible for securing the base (or bases if a base cluster is used). Area
security measures are necessary for convoys and other logistics sites and actions that do not occur on a base
including MATP or FARP operations. Continuous mission accomplishment is critical despite security
operations.
2-76. As the threat increases, the BSB commander may stop sustainment support to adequately protect
personnel and equipment. Failure to provide adequate protection may cause personnel and equipment losses
to be so significant that they prevent sustainment support to the brigade. The brigade commander and the
BSB commander must have previously discussed what risks are reasonable to accept and what risk mitigation
measures to implement based on requirements and priorities.
2-77. The BSB commander ensures logistics missions and associated activities continue without restriction
and that all logistics units can perform protection operations against a level I threat. Table 2-1 identifies level
I-III threats. Although the threat is described by levels as a planning guide, these threat levels do not restrict
responses. Threat levels are simply a planning guide for base defense. For more information on level I-III
threats, refer to ADP 3-37.
Table 2-1. Level I-III threats
Level I Threat

A small enemy force that can be defeated by those units normally operating in the
echelon support area or by the perimeter defenses established by friendly bases
and base clusters.

Level II Threat

An enemy force or activities that can be defeated by a base or base cluster’s
defensive capabilities when augmented by a response force.

Level III Threat

An enemy force or activities beyond the defensive capability of both the base and
base cluster and any local reserve or response force.

2-78. Level I threats include enemy agents, terrorists, and criminals whose primary missions include
espionage, sabotage assassination, and subversion. These include potential insider attacks by elements or
individuals of host-nation partners and security forces.
2-79. Level II threats include small-scale forces that can cause serious harm to military forces and civilians.
Attacks by a level II threat can cause significant disruptions to military operations and the orderly conduct of
local governments and services. Forces constituting level II threats can conduct well-coordinated, but small
scale, hit-and -run attacks; improvised weapons attacks with roadside or vehicle-borne improvised explosive
devices; raids; and ambushes. Level II threats may also include special operations forces.
2-80. Level III threats have the capability of projecting combat power by air, land, or sea or anywhere into
the area of operations. Specific examples include airborne, heliborne, and amphibious operations; large,
combined-arms, ground-force operations, or penetrations; and infiltration operations involving large numbers
of individuals or small groups. Level III threats are beyond the capability of support and rear area forces and
can only be effectively defeated by a tactical combat force or other significant forces.
2-81. The BSB commander and S-3 analyze the terrain in detail from all perspectives and then verify it on
the ground to select engagement areas and positions that allow for the massing of fires and the concentration
of forces on likely enemy avenues of approach. Emphasis is on preparing and concealing positions, routes,
obstacles, logistical support, and command and control facilities and networks. The BSB commander plans,
coordinates, and uses rehearsals to ensure subordinates understand the base defense concept of operations.
To be effective, a BSA defensive plan must include four components:
• Protect the base.
• Detect the enemy.
• Disrupt the enemy.
• Destroy the enemy.

Protect the Base
2-82. The BSA requires continuous protection, from occupation through displacement. Properly designed
perimeter security is the base’s first line of defense. Perimeter security is designed to incorporate layered
defense in depth and integrate security elements including—

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

33

Chapter 2

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Cleared fields of fire.
Interlocking fires.
A final protective line.
Barriers.
Surveillance.
Access control.
Counter-unmanned aircraft system training.

2-83. Units organize a perimeter defense to accomplish a specific mission (such as protecting a base or
providing immediate self-protection). The BSB depends upon early warning, key defensive positions, and a
quick reaction force. During a perimeter defense, leaders at all levels ensure that—
• Units physically tie into each other.
• Direct-fire weapons use flanking fire to protect the perimeter.
• Units utilize indirect fire assets.
• Communications are secure, and redundant systems are in place.
• Units employ obstacles.
• Units establish a final protective line.
2-84. The BSB S-3 assigns a perimeter area to each unit collocated on the base. The S-3 ensures each unit’s
area of fire mutually supports the adjacent unit’s area when feasible. The S-3 coordinates with unit
commanders and confirms that units in the base have coordinated their boundaries of fire with adjacent units.
If a base cluster is used, each unit that controls a base performs the same actions as described for elements
on the base. All elements of units in or transiting through the base help with establishing and defending the
base perimeter. Perimeters vary in shape depending on the terrain and situation. If the commander determines
the most probable direction of enemy attack, the commander may choose to reinforce that part of the
perimeter covering that approach with additional resources.
2-85. All companies and tenants on the base provide sector sketches to the BSB S-3. Figure 2-4 depicts an
example of a completed company sector sketch. BSB companies and all units in the base draw sector sketches
as close to scale as possible. The BSB S-3 combines each sector sketch from the BSB’s subordinate units to
create a realistic, complete, and to-scale base sector sketch. Each sector sketch shows at a minimum—
• Main terrain features and the range to each.
• Each primary position.
• Primary and secondary sectors of fire covering each position.
• Machine gun final protective line or principal direction of fire.
• Type of weapon in each position.
• Reference points.
• Observation post locations.
• Dead space.
• Obstacles.
• Indirect fire targets.
• Engagement areas if applicable.
2-86. Leaders are involved in developing the sector sketch and ensuring that units execute it to standard.
Units construct fighting positions to standard and ensure the fighting positions are mutually supportive with
interlocking fields of fire. They also establish final protective lines across broad fronts or likely enemy
avenues of approach. The final protective line is a selected line of fire where an enemy assault is to be checked
by interlocking fire from all available weapons and obstacles. The BSB S-3 develops a coordinated,
predetermined signal for Soldiers on the perimeter to shift fire to the final protective line. Once the final
protective line is initiated, all Soldiers fire weapons at maximum cyclic rate along the line. Soldiers spare no
ammunition in repelling the enemy.
2-87. Fighting positions for both crew-served weapons and individual weapon positions develop range cards
to standard to ensure the base is properly defended, which in turn aids in developing situational understanding
of the base terrain. The company compiles range cards from fighting positions using DA Form 5517
(Standard Range Card) to build sector sketches up to a complete company sector sketch. Refer to ATP 4-91
for an example of a completed range card using DA Form 5517.

34

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

2-88. The BSB develops an obstacle plan as part of the base or base cluster defense. Units use obstacles to
disrupt, turn, fix, and block an enemy’s progress. The BSB S-3 analyzes the situation and plans hasty or
engineer-emplaced obstacles to support the base defense. Companies in the base also develop their own
internal company obstacle plans that nest with the BSB’s obstacle plan. Commanders integrate reinforcing
obstacles with existing obstacles to improve the natural restrictive nature of the terrain to halt or slow enemy
movement, canalize enemy movement into engagement areas, and protect friendly positions and maneuver.
Units must integrate obstacles with fires to be effective. Improvement to defensive positions is continuous.
Given time and resources, the defending force constructs additional obstacle systems in-depth, paying special
attention to its assailable flanks and rear.

Figure 2-4. Example of a completed company sector sketch
2-89. The BSB develops engagement areas during base defensive planning and operations. Refer to ATP
3-90.1 for more information on engagement area development. An engagement area channels enemy forces
into terrain or routes advantageous to the defense. An engagement area is where the commander intends to
trap and destroy an enemy force using massed fires. The success of any engagement area depends on how
effectively the commander can integrate the obstacle plan, the indirect fire plan, and the direct fire plan in
the engagement area to achieve the defense of the base. The seven steps listed represent a way to build an
engagement area:
• Identify all likely enemy avenues of approach.
• Determine likely enemy concept of operations.
• Determine where to kill the enemy.
• Plan and integrate obstacles.
• Emplace weapons systems (includes preparation of fighting positions).
• Plan and integrate indirect fires.
• Rehearse the execution of operations in the engagement area.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

35

Chapter 2

2-90. While the BSB S-3 is overall responsible for developing the BSA security plan, the BSB S-2 assists by
developing the information collection plan to support security operations in and around the BSB base. The
S-2 also provides intelligence updates from the brigade, especially during periods of heightened threat
activity.
2-91. The perimeter shape may conform to the terrain features that best use friendly observation and fields
of fire. The commander can increase the effectiveness of the perimeter by tying it into a natural obstacle that
allows the unit to concentrate combat power in more threatened areas or operations. The shape and size of
the defensive perimeter depends on mission variables. In anticipation of the need for a quick reaction force
or tactical combat forces, the BSB S-3 develops and rehearses procedures to hand off the battle to arriving
quick reaction forces, military police response forces, or tactical combat forces.
2-92. All units occupying the base must coordinate with adjacent units to form a cohesive defense. The
company commander coordinates with adjacent units to integrate fires and cover gaps between positions.
Companies establish contact points between each other to ensure friendly forces meet at some specific point
on the ground to tie supporting direct and indirect fires between their flanks. In many cases, companies can
accomplish this with the exchange of sector sketches. Typical information exchanged includes—
• Locations of primary, alternate, and supplementary positions.
• Sectors of fire for all crew served weapons.
• Location of dead space between platoons and how it is to be covered.
• Location of observation posts.
• Location and types of obstacles and how the company will cover them.
• Size, type, time of departure and return, and routes of any patrols.
2-93. When a base cluster is used, the leader of each individual base devises a plan for that base’s perimeter
security and the plan is consolidated at the battalion level. Depending on the number of bases in the cluster,
this leader will often, but not necessarily, be a company commander.
2-94. The BSB leverages all available enablers and brigade assets to defend the BSA. This includes brigade
and maneuver battalion indirect fires. The BSB planners develop the BSB’s fires plan with the brigade fire
support element and integrate it into the brigade’s overarching fires plan. The BSB S-3 synchronizes direct
and indirect fires to mitigate enemy use of avenues of approach and infiltration lanes. The S-3 must consider
the number of crew-served weapons in the BSB and balance them between perimeter security and convoy
protection. The brigade fires cell, located in the brigade S-3 section, is the central planning cell that integrates
all required information for fire support planning in the brigade. The BSB S-3 should have radio contact with
the fire support cells for nearby battalion mortar sections, brigade fire support element, and the field artillery
battalion to contact them for fire support if needed. The FTCPs from the battalions, particularly if they have
vehicles evacuated for repair, can emplace non-mission capable combat vehicles oriented along their own
perimeter toward enemy avenues of approach so that the crew served weapons can be employed as part of
the defense.
2-95. Artillery target reference points are easily recognizable points on the ground, either natural or manmade, used to control indirect fires through grid coordinates or target numbers. Units should identify target
reference points where the BSB S-3 anticipates enemy contact. Target reference points allow for units to
easily call for fire to suppress an enemy attack on the BSA. Once identified, the BSB S-3 must coordinate
any targets with the brigade fires for fire support.
2-96. The BSB S-3 maintains the brigade fires overlay, fire support task matrix, and fire support execution
matrix displayed in the CP. If a base cluster is used, all base CPs must have the same fire support information.
The BSB incorporates these fires planning documents into its common operational picture. The brigade fires
overlay serves as the primary means for BSB planners to conceptualize and leverage fires coverage. The fires
overlay provides a visual depiction of all approved targets, indirect fire coverage areas, and pre-planned
targets in the brigade’s area of operations. The fire support task matrix provides all the fires support tasks in
the brigade’s area of operations. It provides the planner with the location of fire support assets within the
brigade. It also provides the location of specific targets, observation responsibility, types of indirect fire
systems available, attack criteria, and communication requirements. The fire support execution matrix shows
how the brigade fires plan supports its scheme of maneuver. It details the timing of indirect fires and close

36

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

air support and how the brigade prioritizes and plans to employ them throughout the entire operation. These
products are also useful for the planning of enablers during a convoy operation.
2-97. The BSB integrates the base defense plan into the security plan for the entire brigade area of operations.
This requires the BSB S-3 to coordinate with the brigade S-3 for the overall plan. This coordination includes
the brigade engineer to ensure integration of engineer support and Class IV materiel to harden positions and
reduce the effectiveness of enemy weapon systems.
2-98. If a base cluster is used, the BSB S-3 coordinates directly with units in bases adjacent to or close to the
BSB to plan mutually supporting fires and to prevent fratricide. The BSB also considers the defensive
perimeter planning for logistics elements that operate or move outside of the BSB’s base.
2-99. Bases are vulnerable to detection and attack by enemy rotary, fixed-wing, and unmanned aircraft
systems. The base defense plan includes an air defense plan using available organic and non-organic assets.
If non-organic assets (such as Avenger systems) are not available, massing fires from crew served and
individual weapons can be effective against low flying aircraft.
2-100. Passive base protection measures include using camouflage, controlling movement, enforcing noise
and light discipline, employing proper communications procedures, and using night-vision devices.
2-101. Units must understand the principles of camouflage and concealment including covering all reflective
surfaces. Camouflage and concealment prevent detection from the air, ground, and radars. To effectively
camouflage and conceal activities, both leaders and Soldiers must constantly consider an enemy’s point of
view. Placing a low priority on camouflage and concealment activities because of time constraints, minimal
resources, or inconvenience could result in mission failure and unnecessary casualties. In some cases,
camouflage and concealment activities may succeed by merely preventing an enemy from identifying a
target. Simply avoiding identification is often sufficient to increase survivability.
2-102. Rows of vehicles and stacks of materiel create equipment patterns that are easier to detect than
randomly dispersed equipment. Units manage equipment patterns and use the surroundings for vehicle and
equipment dispersal. (For example, units ensure that in-person logistics synchronization meetings with
maneuver battalions don’t create a “parking lot” of vehicles during their attendance on a MSR or alternate
supply route.) However, units should not disperse equipment in such a way that it reduces a unit’s ability to
accomplish its mission.
2-103. Natural background is random, and most military equipment has regular features with hard, angular
lines. Even an erected camouflage net takes on a shape with straight-line edges or smooth curves between
support points. An enemy can easily see silhouetted targets, and its sensors can detect targets against any
background unless the shape is disguised or disrupted. Size, which is implicitly related to shape, can also
distinguish a target from its background. Use lightweight camouflage screen systems to conceal vehicles,
tents, shelters, and equipment. Use vegetation to further disrupt the outline of the target rather than completely
hide it. Refer to ATP 3-37.34 for more information on camouflage and concealment.
2-104. Units should avoid patterns in their operations. An enemy can often detect and identify different types
of units or operations by analyzing the signature patterns that accompany their activities. For example, the
forward movement of engineer obstacle-reduction assets, petroleum, oils, and lubricants, and ammunition
precedes an offensive. Such movements are very difficult to conceal.
2-105. The greatest threat to communications at the tactical level is the enemy’s use of electronic warfare
assets to geolocate and target friendly communications. Electromagnetic protection uses techniques such as
limiting transmissions and using natural or manmade objects to mask radiated energy from traveling to
undesired destinations. Electromagnetic protection is essential to prevent the threat from learning friendly
behaviors and intentions in the electromagnetic spectrum. BSB commanders must understand and implement
measures based on threat analysis to combat electromagnetic warfare. For more information on
electromagnetic protection, refer to ATP 3-12.3.
2-106. The BSB base or base cluster defense plan adjusts to meet changing conditions in the area of
operations. The BSB S-3 communicates all defensive adjustments throughout the formation to ensure shared
understanding.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

37

Chapter 2

Detect the Enemy
2-107. Detection includes discovery of enemy forces in the immediate vicinity and knowing as much about
their positions and intentions as possible. Detection is critical in achieving timely response to an enemy threat
and disrupting the threat quickly before it affects sustainment operations.
2-108. The BSB defense may employ early warning systems, trip flares, and listening posts/observation posts
in sufficient quantities to provide adequate coverage of the base perimeter. The BSB conducts random
reconnaissance patrols of designated areas outside its defense perimeter in accordance with the assessed
threats. Active patrolling, adherence to unit SOPs, and continuous reconnaissance are active measures that
help provide detection. Base cluster patrols also include the internal spaces between individual bases;
coordination of these patrols with the BSB S-3 is essential to help prevent fratricide. The BSB also employs
its CBRN detection equipment as part of its detection and base defense plan.
2-109. Units that detect enemy activity immediately notify the base CP or base defense operations center of
the activity and provide as much information as possible about the enemy. Report the time of detection with
information on the enemy element size, activity, location, uniforms, and equipment/weapons. The base CP
or base defense operations center immediately relays the report to the brigade CP. Unit SOP dictates reporting
requirements and specific enemy information.
2-110. The BSB has pre-arranged and rehearsed signals to alert the base of enemy activity and its location.
The unit can use devices including sirens, pyrotechnics, and vehicle horns to provide the alerts. The alert
signals the base reinforcements to mobilize and move to the site of detection.

Disrupt the Enemy
2-111. The BSB defensive plan is structured to disrupt an attacking enemy’s progress after detection and
warning to allow time for the base defense forces to react. Disruption also allows time for mobilization of a
tactical combat force for reinforcement if necessary.
2-112. Units use all available means to disrupt enemy forces. Effective small arms fire will disrupt enemy
activity and delay enemy actions. Commanders disrupt attackers and isolate them from mutual support to
defeat them. Repositioning forces, aggressive local protection measures, and employment of obstacles,
indirect fires, and ambushes combine to disrupt the threat of an attack.

Enemy Destruction
2-113. Units use well-disciplined, well-aimed, and concentrated small arms and grenade fire to destroy an
enemy. Preplanned or adjusted artillery or mortar fire is also extremely effective. Commanders and leaders
are conscious of the proximity of the enemy and notify the fire direction center if the fires will be danger
close. It is unlikely the BSA will be able to destroy any threat higher than Level I without a response force.
If the BSB cannot destroy the threat with its internal capabilities and quick reaction force, it coordinates with
the brigade for external support. If the threat exceeds the available BSA defensive assets, the BSB’s
preplanned defensive measures must delay the enemy force until reinforcements from the brigade can destroy
the enemy.

DISPLACEMENT
2-114. Given the increased expected use of enemy unmanned aircraft systems (which are low cost, low risk
for the enemy and could be high cost for the BSB and its assets), displacement will occasionally prove the
best or only way to protect the brigade’s days of supply and assets.
2-115. The BSB commander must position BSB units close enough to its supported brigade to maintain
responsive sustainment. As such, the BSB will have to displace its operating base or base cluster frequently.
This is particularly true during execution of large-scale combat. The forward movement of the brigade’s
battalions and brigade commander’s movement of the brigade rear boundary will largely dictate when the
BSB must displace. The BSB commander may move the base within the BSA boundaries even if the brigade
rear boundary or BSA boundaries do not move. This keeps an effective proximity with the brigade units and
increases survivability by minimizing time in a single location. The BSB plans base displacement
immediately after occupying a new site. Units follow the displacing procedures in their unit’s tactical SOP.

38

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Command and Control of Brigade Support Battalions

2-116. Considerations as to why a BSB would displace and reestablish in another location include—
• Lines of communication stretched where FSCs could no longer support their maneuver battalions
with a local haul.
• Lack of ability to execute planned and emergency LOGPAC from the BSA to combat trains and
return in one trip.
• Distance away from its supporting DSSB where the DSSB could not support the BSB with a local
haul LOGPAC.
• Inability for the BSB to provide uninterrupted support to the brigade and changing operational
requirements.
• Enduring CBRN threat or hazard which adversely impacts the BSA and cannot be adequately
mitigated.
• Continued degradation of logistics capability due to enemy indirect fire.
• Unmanned aerial system attacks.
• Inability of the FMC to provide additional field-level maintenance and recovery support to the FSCs.
• Degradation of FSC combat power, necessitating additional throughput from the BSB distribution
company.
• Extended ground lines of communication make ambulance exchange point operations difficult to
execute in a timely fashion.
2-117. The BSB commander, in close coordination with the brigade commander and brigade S-3, determines
when to displace the BSA. Both commanders and staffs understand how the displacement of the base will
disrupt brigade support operations and medical care. The disruption may be in terms of time, capability, or a
combination of both. In some instances, the brigade commander and brigade S-3 may choose to relocate the
BSA to a current MCP location due to the difficulty in moving and securing non-mission capable equipment
present in the MCP.
2-118. The BSB S-3 ensures the displacement of the BSB is coordinated with all supported units, subordinate
units, and supporting units. The BSB SPO may coordinate for the DSSB to provide reinforcing support to
brigade units during the BSB displacement. The BSB makes all units, and most importantly the supported
brigade, aware of when support operations will cease at the existing BSB base location, the location of the
new BSB base, when operations will begin at the new BSB base site, and location of any forward logistics
element (FLE) supporting the displacement.
2-119. A forward logistics element is a task-organized collection of multifunctional logistics assets
designed to maintain responsiveness of support to operations. While mission analysis dictates a FLE’s
composition, the BSB typically establishes a FLE with fuel handlers, ammunition handlers, water and Class
I supplies, recovery assets, and medical personnel. When displacing the BSB, a FLE enables the BSB to
continue uninterrupted support to the brigade while relocating. When establishing a FLE, commanders should
consider security requirements for the element. Considerations include the number of personnel, types of
weapon systems required for security, and the impact this has on BSB operational area security. Another FLE
consideration is the impact its vehicle/transportation composition has on BSB convoy operations.
2-120. The BSB CP is responsible for ensuring the transition to the new support base is coordinated with the
sustainment brigade and all supported units. The BSB must direct resupply operations to the new BSA at the
right time, and units must know where the new BSA and resupply points are and when to begin using them.
2-121. Supported units must recognize that BSB support operations degrade while the elements of the BSB
move to a new location. BSB elements move in echelons to minimize support disruption. The echeloning of
sustainment capabilities is especially critical for Role 2 coverage, as the BSMC typically moves with the
BSB while displacing. An echelon approach to medical coverage helps to ensure there is a limited reduction
of medical support to the brigade during the displacement. Brigade planners should carefully consider the
timing of BSA displacement, FLE employment, Role 2 capability and coverage, and FLE composition to
ensure the BSB maintains adequate support throughout the transition.
2-122. The BSB does not have sufficient organic transportation assets to move 100% of its personnel and
organic equipment in one lift. Other elements located in the BSA also lack sufficient transportation. This lack
of organic BSB transportation may necessitate the further echeloning of sustainment capabilities during
displacement. Additionally, downloaded supplies at BSB supply points and disabled equipment at the FMC’s

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

39

Chapter 2

MCP place additional demands on transportation. During a hasty displacement, pre-coordination is likely
unavailable to support within the necessary time window. Therefore, the BSB commander should have a list
of high priority equipment that displaces first and ensure that the movement is deconflicted in space along
multiple avenues. Disabled equipment the FMC cannot repair immediately may need to wait for evacuation
to the new BSB site. The BSB maintains supplies uploaded for rapid mobility. The SPO requests additional
support from the sustainment brigade for all transportation requirements beyond the BSB’s capability.
2-123. Upon receipt of the warning order, BSB units initiate action in preparation to displace. Units load
equipment according to their unit SOP and internal load plans. The BSB units also begin reducing perimeter
concertina wire and defenses. The BSMC evacuates patients in the holding area instead of moving those
patients forward on the battlefield with the displaced Role 2 MTF. The FMC may also increase evacuation
of non-mission capable equipment. Field trains assets should arrange to resupply units with fuel, water, food,
ammunition, and repair parts as much as possible before BSB units close supply points.
2-124. Field trains usually move after the main body of the BSB displaces. The remaining elements of the
BSB will cease any support operation not already stopped after the departure of the maneuver battalions’
field trains. The BSB will upload remaining materiel and move to the new BSB location with permission of
the CP. The BSB’s main CP then transfers control to the tactical CP at the new BSB location, breaks down
its equipment, and displaces.
2-125. The trail party closes out any remaining operations, ensures the old BSA site is clear of anything of
intelligence value to the enemy, and moves to the new BSB site. The trail party includes maintenance
elements to repair or recover disabled vehicles from the rest of the BSB and brigade elements moving to the
new location. The trail party may also need to pick up guides or markers along the route.

40

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Chapter 3

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations
Sustainment planning allows the BSB to support its assigned brigade to sustain the fight. The
BSB and supported brigade must work closely with one another to determine sustainment
requirements. This chapter describes sustainment planning and execution, how the SPO
supports the brigade, and describes the distribution management process and echeloned
sustainment.

OPERATIONS PROCESS
3-1. Sustainment planning supports operational planning (including branch and sequel development) and the
targeting process. Support operations balance the sustainment capabilities of the support battalion against the
requirements of supported units. This chapter will discuss sustainment planning at the brigade echelon and
support operations conducted by BSBs.
3-2. The BSB commander and staff use the operations process to understand, visualize, and describe both the
OE and the operation’s end state. The commander uses this information to make decisions on how to best
support the brigade and then issues orders to articulate those decisions and direct, lead, and assess brigade
sustainment operations. For detailed information on the operations process, refer to ADP 5-0.

PLAN
3-3. Planning may be highly structured or less structured depending on mission and operational variables,
especially the variable of available time. During planning, the BSB S-3 and SPO execute the military
decision-making process (MDMP) appropriate for the planning horizon; the more time available, the more
detailed the planning becomes. For the BSB, future operations normally fall within a span of days and hours.
The BSB SPO focuses on future operations, while the BSB S-3 focuses on current operations.
3-4. The BSB is often most successful when the SPO is operating, planning, communicating, and
synchronizing with the BSB S-3, the brigade S-3 and S-4, and the DSSB at the 96-72 hour planning horizon.
In turn, the BSB is most successful when the S-3 communicates upcoming planned movements and
operations to the companies at the 72-48 hour mark through a five paragraph operation order. One good
practice is for the S-3 to turn as many implied tasks into specified tasks as possible. The BSB continues to
find success when the S-3 tracks and deconflicts missions within a 24-hour execution window of the
companies.
3-5. Regardless of the planning horizon, the outcome of a plan is an executable operations order. The BSB
order synchronizes company actions in time, space, and purpose to achieve objectives and accomplish the
mission. Understanding the distribution management process (to include all subordinate functions that are
executed) facilitates this process. The order also informs others outside the organization on how to cooperate
and provide support. The order describes the situation, establishes a task organization, describes the concept
of operations, assigns tasks to subordinate companies, and provides essential coordinating instructions. The
order may be in fragmentary order form issued as needed to change or modify an operation order during
execution.
3-6. The BSB commander and staff apply the philosophy of mission command when planning, understanding
that no one has complete knowledge of the situation. Imperfect knowledge and assumptions about the future
are inherent in planning and it cannot precisely predict how enemies will react during operations. Planning
does not eliminate uncertainty, but instead it identifies actions to take during uncertainty. Regardless,
planning results in improved situational understanding and facilitates future decision making. Planning and
plans help leaders to—
• Understand the situation (to include supply requirements) and develop solutions to problems.
• Task organize the supply and transportation units and prioritize efforts.
• Direct, coordinate, and synchronize action.
• Anticipate events and adapt to changing circumstances.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

41

Chapter 3

3-7. The staff updates the running estimates during planning. A running estimate is the continuous assessment
of the current situation used to determine if the current operation is proceeding according to the commander's
intent, and if planned future events are supportable. A comprehensive running estimate addresses all aspects
of operations and contains both facts and assumptions based on the staff's experience in a specific area of
expertise. In their running estimates, each staff section continuously considers the effect of new information
and updates the following:
• Facts and assumptions.
• Sustainment equipment, vehicles, and their capabilities.
• Shortfalls and recommended mitigation.
• Friendly force status.
• Enemy activities and capabilities.
• Civil considerations.
• Projected culmination points
• Risk and mitigation.
Note. Running estimates also include the forecast and historical consumption rates of the
maneuver battalions.
3-8. Planning allows commanders and staffs to stay focused on the future despite requirements for current
operations. During planning, the BSB commander and staff anticipate problems and enemy actions and
develop distribution contingency plans to provide flexibility. Decision points, branches, and sequels are tools
used to accomplish this. A decision point is a point in space and time when the commander or staff anticipates
making a key decision concerning a course of action. A decision point is tied to the commander's critical
information requirements and enemy and friendly action. At such points, based on assessment, commanders
may decide to alter the initial operations concept and execute preplanned branches or sequels. A branch is a
contingency option built into the base plan that allows flexibility and adjustment to the plan beyond the initial
stages of the operation. A sequel is the subsequent operation or phase based on the possible outcomes of the
current operation or phase. During planning, sustainment commanders and staffs develop branches and
sequels as part of the order.
3-9. During planning, the BSB S-3 and SPO collaborate throughout MDMP from receipt of mission until the
operations order is published and disseminated. Both staffs have roles in developing a distribution plan that
is later included in the unit order as part of the operations concept. All plans account for friction and
uncertainty. Every plan should include enough redundancy and allotted time to enable success should it not
be perfectly executed. The plan prioritizes effectiveness over efficiency. Combat operations are inherently
wasteful and uncertain. Plans that depend upon intricate timing and assume no waste are unlikely to meet the
commander's intent.
3-10. The brigade S-4 is the lead planner for sustainment within the brigade. The brigade S-1, surgeon, and
chaplain assist the S-4 in developing the brigade sustainment concept of support. Representatives from these
and other sections form a sustainment planning cell at the brigade main CP. The brigade S-4 is responsible
for producing the sustainment paragraph and annexes of the operation order.
3-11. The BSB SPO is the principal staff officer responsible for synchronizing sustainment operations for all
units assigned or attached to the brigade. The SPO applies sustainment capabilities against brigade
requirements. For more information and tools for sustainment planning, refer to ATP 4-91.
3-12. Sustainment preparation of the OE assists planning staffs with refining the sustainment estimate and
concept of support. Brigade sustainment planners forecast and build operational stocks as well as identify
endemic health and environmental factors. Integrating environmental considerations will sustain vital
resources and help reduce the logistics footprint.
3-13. Planning considerations for operations in a CBRN environment include increased requirements for
CBRN consumable supplies such as protective equipment, decontaminants, and water, and the replacement
of contaminated equipment and supplies. For more information on CBRN planning considerations, refer to
FM 3-11.

42

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

3-14. Medical planning requires a clear delineation of roles and responsibilities of all the medical capabilities
between the staff and the commanders within the brigade. Identifying roles and responsibilities early on
provides a pathway for a well-synchronized medical concept of support and establishes clear guidance for
who is responsible for each function. The essential key planning technique is using conformity and proximity,
two of the medical planning principles, as they relate to the brigade’s overall concept of support. Balancing
these two principles requires a firm understanding of the overall concept of operations and scheme of
maneuver. For additional information on the medical planning, refer to ATP 4-02.55.

Considerations
3-15. Sustainment planners develop and continually refine the sustainment concept of support. Coordination
between staff planners must be continuous. The BSB commander anticipates where the greatest need may
occur to develop a priority of support that meets the brigade commander’s operational plan.
Considerations for the Offensive
3-16. During the offense, the most important commodities are typically fuel (Class III[B]), ammunition
(Class V), medical supplies, and repair parts (Class IX). The sustainment concept of support must include a
responsive medical evacuation plan and resupply plan. Long lines of communications, dispersed forces, poor
trafficability, contested terrain, and congested road networks are factors that impede the transportation
system; movement control is critical to ensuring supply distribution. The brigade and BSB commanders must
consider all of these factors when developing the distribution plan that supports the operational plan.
3-17. Sustainment planners may consider positioning sustainment units in close proximity to operations to
reduce critical support response times. Establishment of a FLE provides the ability to weight the main effort
for the operation by drawing on all sustainment assets across the brigade. The commander and staff may
consider alternative methods for delivering sustainment during emergencies.
Considerations for the Defense
3-18. Sustainment planners must consider prepositioning Class III (B), Class IV, and Class V far forward
initially to support the security area during the counter reconnaissance fight, followed by the main battle area
so that the brigade can rapidly transition from defense to offense. Planning for sustainment operations
throughout the security area is critical to sustaining reconnaissance and security operations to prevent enemy
forces from determining friendly force disposition. Forces within the security area are configured prior to
crossing the line of departure with a minimum of 72-hour LOGPAC of Class I, Class III, and Class V.
Sustainment support to the security area must include planning for both ground medical evacuation and aerial
casualty evacuation of long duration observation posts. Brigade sustainment planners also consider cross
leveling classes of supply and sustainment assets upon transition from the offense to the defense.
3-19. The considerations which influence the employment of medical assets in the brigade are dependent on
the brigade commander’s plan, the anticipated patient load, expected areas of casualty density, and the
medical treatment and evacuation resources available. The depth and dispersion of the defense create
significant time/distance problems for medical evacuation assets.
Considerations for Stability Operations
3-20. Operations focused on stability seek to stabilize the environment enough so that the host nation can
begin to resolve the root causes of conflict and state failure. During consolidation of gains, these operations
will focus on security and stability operations tasks to establish conditions that support the transition to
legitimate authorities. Initially, this is accomplished by performing the minimum essential stability operations
tasks of providing security, food, water, shelter, and medical treatment. Once conditions allow, these tasks
are a legal responsibility of U.S. Army forces.
3-21. Sustainment planners, in concert with other military units and appropriate civilian organizations (if
available), will have a significant role in planning and executing the six stability operations:
• Establish civil security.
• Support to civil control.
• Restore essential services.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

43

Chapter 3

•
•
•

Support to governance.
Support to economic and infrastructure development.
Conduct security cooperation.

3-22. For additional sustainment planning considerations, refer to FM 3-96.

Concept of Support
3-23. The brigade sustainment concept of support is a written and graphical representation of how the brigade
will be sustained and how sustainment is integrated with the maneuver force's concept of operations. It
identifies the sustainment requirements for an operation, the priority of support by phase of the operation
(established by the brigade commander), and the forecasted receipt of resupply from the next echelon of
sustainment. To establish the concept of support, brigade sustainment planners must know—
• Subordinate unit missions.
• Times missions are to occur.
• Desired end states.
• Schemes of movement and maneuver.
• Timing of critical events.
• Brigade sustainment requirements.
• Unit capabilities.

PREPARE
3-24. Preparation includes those activities performed by units to improve their ability to execute an operation.
Preparation usually begins upon receipt of a warning order from the higher headquarters. The battalion staff
performs a timely analysis early in the planning process that helps them determine what actions they need to
take and when to begin those actions to ensure forces are ready and in position before execution. The plan
may require the commander to direct subordinates to start necessary movements, make task-organization
changes, and execute other preparation activities before completing the plan. Parallel planning for the staffs
is critical to ensure timely planning and execution of sustainment operations in conjunction with maneuver
forces. Parallel planning involves multiple echelons planning for the same operation, sharing information
sequentially through warning orders from the higher headquarters before the operation plan or operation
order. The BSB S-3, upon receipt of an order from higher headquarters, should assess the synchronization
matrix and determine the best subordinate company to perform the upcoming mission. The S-3 then issues a
warning order.
3-25. The BSB S-3 is concurrently responsible to inform the SPO of tasks from higher headquarters that may
interfere with sustainment operations or specify sustainment support displacement, transitions in phases,
operations, main/supported efforts or command relationship changes. Rehearsals help synchronize the
sustainment warfighting function with the brigade's overall operation. These rehearsals typically involve
coordination and procedure drills for transportation support, resupply, maintenance and vehicle recovery,
medical, and casualty evacuation. The sustainment rehearsal validates the logistics synchronization matrix
and BSB concept of operations. The primary document used at the sustainment rehearsal is the logistics
synchronization matrix.
3-26. Casualty evacuation operations are essential to the sustainment plan of a maneuver brigade, playing a
pivotal role in maintaining the unit's combat readiness and sustainability. The effective coordination of
medical support and logistical efforts ensures quick and efficient evacuation of casualties to medical facilities,
enhancing troop survival rates and morale. The BSB, which is responsible for logistical support, needs to be
well-prepared to carry out these operations seamlessly, allowing the brigade to sustain its operational pace
even in intense combat situations. Proactive planning is crucial, involving detailed preparations alongside
other logistics like ammunition and food supply. This planning should define specific roles, set evacuation
routes, and include regular drills to ensure all units are familiar with procedures, reducing response times and
potential confusion in emergencies. By integrating casualty evacuation into the maneuver brigade’s
operations, the brigade is better positioned to function effectively, ensuring the health and recovery of
Soldiers are prioritized, thus keeping the force cohesive and resilient under the pressures of combat. For
additional information on casualty evacuation operations, refer to ATP 4-02.13.

44

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

Sustainment Synchronization Matrix
3-27. The SPO normally develops a sustainment synchronization matrix to graphically display which support
functions are executed when and where during a mission. A typical synchronization matrix displays support
functions along the x-axis, with time of support displayed along the y-axis. Within the matrix, each block
contains unit identification and unit eight-digit map grid coordinates to correspond with a function and a
time. This matrix ensures all units to be supported and all sustainment functions to be executed (including
time and location) on a mission are accounted for. It also ensures there are no conflicts in support.
3-28. The sustainment synchronization matrix accounts for the historical resupply received from higher
echelons and delivered to supported units, by commodity. The purpose is to provide a snapshot in time to
create a better historical understanding of consumption and ensure better forecasting.

Sustainment Overlay
3-29. A sustainment overlay is a graphic representation of the locations of—
• Sustainment units.
• Support areas.
• MSRs.
• Alternate supply routes.
• Transportation nodes.
• Unit boundaries.
• Control measures.
• Supply points.
• MCPs.
• Ambulance exchange points.
• MTFs.
• Mortuary affairs collection points (MACPs).

Sustainment Rehearsal
3-30. The brigade sustainment rehearsal ensures the synchronization of sustainment efforts before, during,
and after operations. The sustainment rehearsal validates the logistics synchronization matrix and BSB
concept of operations. The rehearsal focuses on the supported and supporting unit with respect to sustainment
operations across time and space, as well as the method of support for specific actions during the operation.
The sustainment rehearsal normally occurs after the combined arms rehearsal. The primary product of the
sustainment rehearsal is a validated logistics synchronization matrix.

EXECUTE
3-31. During execution, BSB commanders focus on directing, assessing, and leading while improving their
understanding and modifying their visualization. Initially, commanders direct the transition from planning to
execution when the battalion issues the order. The SPO section uses a synchronization matrix as a visual and
sequential representation of critical tasks and responsible organizations. The BSB S-3 focuses on defining
command and support relationships and geographical placement of units while generating and synchronizing
staff support to the tactical units executing the mission.

ASSESS
3-32. Assessment allows the commanders and leaders to gain situational understanding. It provides
commanders, staffs, and leaders with the necessary information to determine sustainment support
requirements. Assessment allows commanders and staffs to diagnose problems to determine whether the
battalion is executing the plan effectively, whether the plan needs to change, or whether additional
sustainment is required to support the current plan. It also provides commanders and staffs with information
on how sustainment operations are progressing and identifies problem areas where commanders can expect
friction or conflict. While assessment is listed as the last operations process task, it is continuous. Broadly,
assessment consists of, but is not limited to, the following activities:
• Monitoring the current situation to collect information.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

45

Chapter 3

•
•
•

Evaluating progress toward attaining end state conditions, achieving objectives, and performing
tasks.
Recommending or directing action for improvement.
Reviewing assumptions and cumulative risk associated with previous decisions.

3-33. The BSB staff uses running estimates to assess if support operations are occurring as planned and are
achieving the desired results:
• Assess the status of organic, assigned, and attached units: The BSB commander, company
commanders, and leaders at all echelons assess the sustainment status of organic, assigned, and
attached units. This includes, but is not limited to, status of personnel strength, equipment readiness,
critical equipment on hand, critical supplies on hand by supply class, casualty status, organic
medical capability (if applicable), and battle losses.
• Assess status of supported units: The BSB commander and the SPO staff determine the sustainment
status of the brigade units. SPO planners use this information to develop specific sustainment
requirements to develop the concept of support.
• Assess the status of BSB’s capacity to support: The commander and staff assess the status of support
capability of the battalion’s companies. This assessment determines if the sustainment task
organization is adequate to support the brigade mission and identifies shortfalls in terms of
sustainment functionality.

SUSTAINMENT REPORTING
3-34. The LOGSTAT is an internal status report that identifies logistics requirements, provides visibility on
critical shortages, allows commanders and staffs to forecast future support requirements, projects mission
capability, and informs the common operational picture (FM 4-0). Accurate reporting of logistics and AHS
support status is essential for keeping units combat ready. The LOGSTAT report is critical to sustainment
support planning, decision making, and execution. It is used throughout the brigade to provide a real-time
status of supply and equipment readiness. LOGSTAT reports allow commanders and staff to plan and decide
on sustainment courses of action.
3-35. All units submit LOGSTAT reports on organic supplies and equipment readiness. This information
allows commanders to determine if the unit has what it needs to accomplish the mission. This report is
submitted, compiled, and resubmitted at the company headquarters, battalion S-4, brigade S-4, and then to
the division G-4. For more information on sustainment reporting, refer to ATP 4-91.

THE DISTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS
3-36. Distribution management is a process that includes materiel management and transportation
management functions. The process begins with identifying tactical unit requirements and ends when the
requirements are met. The BSB SPO commodity managers determine and validate materiel requirements for
distribution to brigade units, obtain materiel to be distributed by appropriate commodity and quantity, and
coordinate its distribution according to command priorities. The BSB SPO section develops the distribution
plan. The BSB S-3 publishes the distribution plan in the operation order concept of operations. Figure 3-1
depicts the distribution management process.
3-37. The distribution management plan must be synchronized with the supported headquarters’ operation
across all warfighting functions. Failure by commanders and planners to achieve this synchronization may
result in an unexecutable distribution plan that is not realized until the operation begins. For more information
on material management, supply, and field services operations, refer to ATP 4-42.

46

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

Figure 3-1. Distribution management process

MATERIEL MANAGEMENT
3-38. Materiel management is the continuous situational understanding, planning, and execution of supply
and maintenance capabilities to anticipate, synchronize, and direct all classes of supply to maximize combat
power and enable freedom of action in accordance with the supported commander's priorities. Materiel
management determines the materiel requirements of the brigade by class of supply, determines availability
of the materiel from either on-hand or higher source-of-supply stocks, obtains the materiel, and coordinates
the movement of the distribution.
3-39. The SPO section executes the following materiel management tasks while integrating their efforts with
the DSB—
• Supply planning is forecasting and establishing supply stock levels in the SSA to meet mission
requirements.
• Requirements determination is the process of understanding the supply requirements of the
brigade.
• Requirements validation evaluates supply requirements against commander’s priorities.
Requirements validation also includes establishing controlled supply rates.
• Asset reporting is focused on supply availability.
• Asset visibility involves maintaining accountability and visibility of materiel.
• Maintenance involves analyzing maintenance capabilities and requirements to support operational
requirements and synchronizing sustainment maintenance support.

Maintenance Management
3-40. Maintenance management includes forecasting, scheduling, technical assistance, resourcing repair
parts, and work loading and cross-leveling maintenance operations. Maintenance staffs conduct maintenance
management.
3-41. SPO maintenance management personnel provide maintenance oversight of the FMC and FSC
maintenance sections. They ensure integrated, automated maintenance management for combat vehicles and
automotive, ground support, communications and electronics, and missile equipment. The maintenance
management personnel also plan and forecast maintenance and related Class IX requirements based on future

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

47

Chapter 3

operational plans and coordinate the disposal of enemy equipment. For more information on maintenance
management, refer to ATP 4-33.

Supply Operations
3-42. Army supply support operations include the basic functions of acquisition, receipt, storage, issue, and
retrograde of the ten classes of supplies, also known as commodities. Materiel managers execute supply
support by way of the Army distribution management process, which includes the functions of materiel
management, distribution integration, and transportation operations. Commanders determine the
composition, frequency, and method of resupply to best support operations. Supply personnel request,
receive, issue, prepare, and maintain detailed accounting records.
3-43. AHS support depends upon specialized medical materiel, blood, and support services provided by a
combined team of medical and sustainment personnel. Medical logistics encompasses medical supply
support, medical device maintenance and repair, optical fabrication and repair, blood storage and distribution,
patient movement items, medical contracting, regulated medical waste, medical gases, and medical facilities
and infrastructure.
3-44. Routine resupply operations include regular resupply of items in supply classes I, III, V, VIII, and IX.
Battalions plan routine resupply, and operations are captured on the logistics synchronization matrix by time
and frequency as part of the BSB concept of the operation. The LOGPAC contains company and battalion
assets that transport supplies to the company. For example, a company supply sergeant assembles the
LOGPAC in the BSA under the supervision of the HHC commander or the battalion supply officer. Routine
Class VIII supplies are drawn from the SSA by the FSC for distribution to the supported units. For CL VIII
blood, emergency resupply can be conducted using ambulance backhaul.
Supply Support Activity
3-45. The SSA within the distribution company is the primary supply hub for the brigade. Distribution
companies provide the planning, direction, and supervision of supply distribution consisting of the daily
receipt, temporary storage, and issue of supply classes I, II, III (B), III (P), IV, V, VIII, and IX to the brigade.
Supply Platoon
3-46. The supply platoon has a general supply section that receives, stores, issues, and transloads supply
classes II, III(P), IV, VII, VIII, and IX supplies. The SSA receives supplies and equipment from supported
units and coordinates transportation for the retrograde of materiel. The SSA, in conjunction with the supply
platoon headquarters, manages and maintains the authorized stockage list. The supply platoon is capable of
handling packaged water for receipt, storage, and issue operations (packaged water is treated the same as dry
cargo). For further details on the SSA, refer to ATP 4-42.2.

DISTRIBUTION INTEGRATION
3-47. The BSB SPO serves as the principal staff officer responsible for synchronizing BSB sustainment
operations for all units assigned or attached to the brigade. The SPO section integrates its efforts with the
DSB, brigade staff, and other BSB staff sections.
3-48. Distribution integration functions are:
• Distribution planning (SPO).
• Transportation feasibility (SPO, distribution company, FSC).
• Prioritization (SPO).
• Mitigation of transportation shortfalls (SPO, distribution company, FSC).
• Synchronization (SPO).
• Distribution (distribution company, medical company, and FSC).
• Redistribution (distribution company, medical company, and FSC).
• Visibility (SPO).
• Coordination with S-3 (SPO).

48

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

3-49. Distribution planning ensures the proper allocation of transportation assets to fulfill mission
requirements based on command priorities and identifies and mitigates shortfalls. When planning motor
transportation operations, managers compare capabilities versus requirements, which will identify excesses
or shortfalls. When excess or shortfalls exist, planners can mitigate these by changing vehicle types to
effectively utilize carrying capacity.
3-50. Transportation feasibility determines if the capability exists to move forces, equipment, and supplies
from the point of origin to the final destination in the time required. If transportation is not feasible, this fact
is reported from the distribution integration branch/personnel to the materiel management branch.
3-51. Prioritization ensures commodities to be distributed are organized and queued in order of priority as
determined by the command. Priority is expressed as both commodity and unit priority. Priorities are stated
in the brigade operation order, in terms of priorities of support and priorities of movement, informed by the
decisive operation and main effort during phases of an operation.
3-52. Mitigation of shortfalls links materiel management to transportation in terms of commodity, quantity,
and priority. It ensures that adequate transportation assets are identified and obtained against the requirement
deficiency.
3-53. Synchronization ensures distribution is synchronized with transportation operation cycles to ensure
modes with sufficient capacity are available when commodities are positioned for movement. It also
synchronizes distribution with operational tasks, phases, and objectives.
3-54. Distribution is the operational process of synchronizing all elements of the logistics system to deliver
the “right things” to the “right place” at the “right time” to support the commander.
3-55. Visibility provides the materiel managers visibility of commodities available, queued, and prioritized.
This allows distribution managers to allocate adequate transportation for movement.
3-56. Distribution integration personnel coordinate with the S-3 when they have developed a distribution
plan. This plan must be coordinated with the S-3 for inclusion in the BSB operations process and operation
order.

TRANSPORTATION
3-57. The BSB uses its assigned distribution company as well as the FSC distribution platoons to provide
support to maneuver battalions. The BSB SPO conducts distribution planning to properly allocate
transportation assets to fulfill mission requirements based on command priorities. When planning motor
transportation operations, managers compare capabilities versus requirements, which will identify excesses
or shortfalls. When excesses or shortfalls exist, planners can mitigate these by changing vehicle types to
effectively utilize carrying capacity or request higher level support.

Methods of Distribution
3-58. In the brigade, distribution builds and maintains combat power through the delivery of supplies,
personnel, and equipment. Sustainment units select a distribution method appropriate to the mission, tactical
situation, the supported unit's priority of support, time/distance, and other factors of mission and operational
variables. There are three methods of distribution:
• Unit distribution.
• Supply point distribution.
• Throughput distribution (sometimes considered a subset of unit distribution).
3-59. In each method of distribution, there are multiple techniques for the distribution of supplies, personnel,
and equipment.
Unit Distribution
3-60. Unit distribution is the routine distribution method the BSB uses to support the brigade. In unit
distribution, supplies are organized in configured loads and delivered to one or more central locations. This
means of resupply usually requires significantly more time than supply point distribution. Supply personnel
can create unit load configurations to resupply specific battalion, company, or platoon-sized elements

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

49

Chapter 3

depending on the level of distribution required and mission variables. Unit distribution maximizes use of the
lift capacity of brigade transportation assets and minimizes delivery and turnaround time. Supported unit
vehicles move individually or in small groups from their positions to a centrally located point to conduct
resupply operations and return.
Note. Within a maneuver company or troop, the first sergeant may replenish subordinate company
elements using various resupply techniques depending on the situation. Subordinate elements may
move from their positions to a designated site to feed, resupply, or turn-in damaged equipment.
This is often referred to as a service station technique. This technique is normally used in assembly
areas and when contact is not likely. This technique takes the least amount of time for the unit and
sustainment operators. Conversely, the first sergeant may use unit or support personnel and
vehicles to go to each subordinate element to replenish them. Soldiers can remain in position when
using this technique. This technique is the lengthiest resupply method and may compromise
friendly positions. This is often referred to as the tailgate technique or in-position resupply.
Supply Point Distribution
3-61. Supply point distribution requires unit representatives to move to a supply point to pick up their
supplies. Units most commonly execute supply point distribution by means of an LRP. Some supply point
distribution techniques include refuel on-the-move (ROM), pre-positioned supplies, and cache.
Throughput Distribution
3-62. Throughput distribution is a method of distribution which bypasses one or more intermediate supply
echelons in the supply system to avoid multiple handling. The BSB or DSSB may execute throughput
distribution in the brigade's area of operations when needed. An example of throughput distribution would
be the BSB distribution company bypassing the FSC to distribute supplies directly to maneuver units.
Additionally, a DSSB may distribute supplies from an echelon above brigade SSA to an FSC, bypassing the
BSB. Mission variables are the major considerations when deciding to use throughput distribution.

Methods of Resupply
3-63. BSB planners understand that unpredictable events including weather, terrain, enemy contact, and other
mission and operational variables disrupt planned resupply schedules. This requires constant assessment of
the situation and rapid adjustments of the distribution plan. Resupply operations require continuous and close
coordination between the supporting and supported units. There are only two methods of resupply: planned
and emergency resupply.
Planned Resupply
3-64. Planned resupply is the preferred method of resupply. The sustainment concept of support,
synchronization matrix, LOGSTAT, and running estimates establish the requirement, timing, and frequency
for routine planned resupply. Planned resupply operations cover all classes of supply, water, mail, and any
other items usually requested. Whenever possible, the BSB should execute planned or routine resupply on a
regular basis, ideally during hours of limited visibility.
Emergency Resupply
3-65. Emergency resupply is the least preferred method of supply. Requests for emergency resupply often
indicate a breakdown in coordination and collaboration between sustainment and maneuver forces. Accurate
LOGSTAT reporting is critical to reduce the number of required emergency resupply operations. Poor
logistics reporting from units places a burden on the sustainment system by needlessly putting personnel and
equipment at risk through additional resupply operations and degrades the efficient distribution of supplies
across the brigade. Emergency resupply can lead to excess materiel and needless LOGPAC operations.
Emergency resupply requests that are beyond BSB capabilities require prompt coordination with the DSB
for support. When a unit has an emergency resupply need, the FSC or distribution company from the BSB
executes an emergency resupply.

50

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

Resupply Techniques
3-66. In each method of resupply, there are multiple techniques. Logisticians and supported units can use
several techniques for resupply during planned and emergency resupply operations. Units can utilize different
techniques to conduct supply point and unit distribution operations. In many cases, units conduct both supply
point and unit distribution operations during the same resupply technique.
Logistics Package
3-67. The LOGPAC is a grouping of multiple classes of supply and supply vehicles under the control of a
single convoy commander. It is a simple and efficient way to accomplish routine, planned resupply.
Scheduled LOGPACs typically contain a standardized allocation of supplies based on consumption rates of
the supported force reported through LOGSTATs, the sustainment concept of support, and synchronization
matrix.
3-68. LOGPAC resupply convoys utilize field and combat trains to echelon sustainment across the
battlefield. Typically, platoon leaders from the BSB’s distribution company lead LOGPACs from the BSA.
However, FSCs may conduct LOGPACs from the BSA depending on mission variables. The BSB or a DSSB
may conduct throughput distribution in the maneuver brigade’s area of operations when required. The BSB
can dispatch an emergency (sometimes referred to as urgent or immediate) LOGPAC as needed.
3-69. Before a LOGPAC, the BSB’s distribution company configures loads for resupply to maneuver
battalions in the brigade. Once received by the FSC, the platoon leader from the FSC’s distribution platoon
leads the battalion LOGPAC. The FSC often breaks the resupply into company-configured loads in the field
or combat trains, and the maneuver battalion can reconfigure loads further at an LRP if necessary and mission
variables allow. Maneuver company or troop representatives can accompany the LOGPAC. The maneuver
company or troop executive officer or first sergeant meets the LOGPAC at the LRP and escorts the convoy
to the maneuver company or troop’s trains or positions.
3-70. When planning resupply from either DSSB or the BSB distribution company, FSCs ensure they have
resupplied the maneuver companies to allow space to receive as many classes of supply as possible. The FSC
must especially synchronize Class III and V distribution before receiving resupply.
3-71. The length of time the unit must sustain itself in combat without resupply determines its combat load.
The commander dictates minimum load requirements; however, the commander or the unit SOP specifies
most items. Specific combat loads vary by mission.
Logistics Release Point
3-72. Maneuver units most commonly execute supply point distribution by means of an LRP. The LRP may
be any place on the ground where distribution unit vehicles take supplies and are met by the supported unit,
which then takes the supplies forward to their unit for subsequent distribution. Units can utilize both supply
point and unit distribution when supplying a force at an LRP. Subsequent distribution below company level
generally involves using a service station or tailgate resupply technique or some combination of both.
3-73. Sustainment and maneuver units use LRPs to maximize efficient use of distribution assets and reduce
how much time and distance the supported unit must travel to receive supplies. The LRP is often located
between the maneuver battalion combat trains and the company trains. An LRP is normally established and
secured for only a limited duration of time. Resupply at an LRP is a planned, coordinated, and synchronized
operation.
3-74. The FSC commander and battalion S-4, in coordination with the S-3, plan the location, timing, and
establishment of LRPs for the maneuver battalion. Planners must consider mission variables and security
considerations when determining the LRP’s location.
3-75. Finally, the maneuver force and sustainment planners must consider the timing of LRP operations. The
FSC must deliver supplies to multiple companies during LOGPAC operations. The FSC could possibly
deliver to multiple LRPs depending on the situation and mission variables. There may only be a small window
of time before elements of the LOGPAC must meet to return to the combat trains or BSA. The maneuver
company executive officer or first sergeant and FSC distribution platoon leader must consider the timing of

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

51

Chapter 3

LRP operations, resupply of vehicles (particularly with Class III and V), and the download of supplies. Figure
3-2 shows an example of an LRP.

Figure 3-2. Example of a logistics release point
Contingency Resupply
3-76. Contingency resupply is the on-call delivery of prepackaged supplies during the execution phase of an
operation. This type of on-call resupply is generally used to support an operation of limited duration, such as
an air assault. Contingency resupply operations are identified during MDMP, normally during wargaming as
each course of action is analyzed. Contingency resupply differs from a routine (planned) LOGPAC or
emergency resupply in that, before execution, triggers for delivery are developed to tie contingency resupply
operations to the ground tactical plan. During the planning and preparation phases of the operations process,
units develop menus for prepackaged classes of supply to ensure their availability for expedited delivery as
needed. A contingency resupply package can be as simple as a container or bag filled with a small amount
of supplies or a unit basic load prepackaged for delivery when needed. Delivery means vary between rotarywing, fixed-wing, and ground delivery assets.
Pre-positioned Supplies
3-77. The pre-positioning of supplies is a planned resupply technique that reduces the reliance on traditional
convoy operations and other resupply operations. Pre-positioned supplies build a stockage level on the
battlefield of ordinarily high-demand, consumable supplies such as construction and barrier materials, water,
and under certain security considerations, ammunition. Maneuver and sustainment units must carefully plan,
prepare, and execute the pre-positioning of supplies. Commanders and subordinate leaders must know the
exact locations of pre-positioned supply sites, which they verify during reconnaissance and rehearsals. The
commander takes measures to ensure their survivability. These measures may include digging in prepositioned supplies as well as selecting covered and concealed positions. The commander must also have a
plan to remove or destroy pre-positioned supplies if required.
3-78. Based on the brigade’s concept of operations and sustainment concept of support, commanders and
logisticians consider using pre-positioned supplies along a planned axis of advance or within an area defense.

52

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

Based on the brigade’s scheme of maneuver, pre-positioned supplies can enable units during the conduct of
retrograde operations that have extended lines of communications beyond a local haul resupply.
Cache
3-79. A cache is a pre-positioned and concealed supply point. Caches are different from standard prepositioned supplies because the supported or supporting units conceal the supplies from the enemy whereas
units may not conceal other pre-positioned supplies. Caches are an excellent tool for reducing the Soldier’s
load and can be set up for a specific mission or as a contingency measure. Cache sites have the same
characteristics as an objective rally point or patrol base, with the supplies concealed above or below ground.
An above-ground cache is easier to get to but is more likely for the enemy, civilians, or animals to discover.
A security risk always exists when returning to a cache. A cache site is observed for signs of enemy presence
and secured before units use it due to the potential of booby traps and enemy observation.
Refuel on-the-Move
3-80. The ROM can be tailored to many tactical situations, but the primary purpose is to extend reach and
tempo for the offensive operation. Any level unit can conduct ROM operations. Typically, an FSC will
conduct ROM operations to support maneuver units between engagements or to increase time on target while
maneuver units peel back and flow through the ROM and return to the current engagement. A ROM can be
as simple as utilizing heavy expanded mobile tactical trucks or modular fuel systems, or as complex as
needed, utilizing any equipment available to support the largest of movements.
3-81. When vehicles enter a ROM site for refueling, fuel trucks issue a predetermined amount of fuel (usually
timed), and the vehicles move out to return to their convoy or formation. The rapid employment of the ROM
distinguishes it from routine convoy refueling operations. Planners do not intend for a ROM to completely
refuel combat vehicles. Instead, they intend the ROM to rapidly resupply a set portion of fuel to extend the
operational reach of ground maneuver forces.
3-82. Supported unit S-3 and S-4 staffs coordinate with the brigade S-4 and BSB SPO officer to set the time
and place to conduct ROM operations according to unit battle rhythm and establish how much fuel or time
for fueling the BSB or FSC will give each vehicle. The concept can be extended based on the size and scope
of the operation; for example, the DSSB can be the force conducting the ROM for the whole division, while
the entirety of the brigade’s fuel assets push through remaining full. In the brigade concept of operations, the
distribution company would conduct the ROM while the FSCs pass through remaining full.
Forward Arming and Refueling Point
3-83. A FARP is a temporary facility that is organized, equipped, and deployed as far forward or widely
dispersed as tactically feasible to provide fuel and ammunition for aviation units in combat. Establishing a
FARP allows commanders to extend the range of aircraft or significantly increase time on station by
eliminating the need for aircraft to return to the aviation unit’s central base of operations to refuel and rearm.
FARPs may be task organized to provide maintenance support as well as air traffic control services, if
required.
3-84. FARPs are generally conducted by the distribution company of an ASB. Commanders employ FARPs
when the distance covered or endurance requirements of a mission exceed normal capabilities of unit aircraft.
They may also use FARPs during rapid advances when field trains cannot keep pace. For additional
information on FARPs, refer to ATP 3-04.17.
Aerial Delivery
3-85. Aerial delivery is the air transport of cargo, equipment, and/or personnel to a desired location on the
ground by aircraft (ATP 4-48). During periods of air superiority and while operating in areas with limited
enemy air defense capability, the use of aerial delivery reduces the ground threat to transportation and
distribution operations and can be used to extend lines of communications. In addition, if forces become
isolated, aerial delivery can be used as a means of resupply. To arrange for aerial delivery, the BSB SPO
coordinates with the DSB SPO for rigger support. For more information on aerial delivery, refer to ATP 4-48.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

53

Chapter 3

Modular System Exchange Operation
3-86. A modular system exchange operation is the resupply technique used to distribute and exchange full
flatracks, multi-temperature refrigerated container systems, modular fuel systems, or modular water tank
racks to a supported unit and retrograde empty ones back from it. Logisticians can apply this method of
exchange to any modular system for commodities. Modular system exchange increases distribution
throughput capability, extends operational reach, and prolongs the endurance of maneuver forces. The use of
flatrack distribution and exchange forward in the maneuver brigade area of operations increases the supported
maneuver commander’s tactical flexibility and decreases the sustainment transportation asset’s time on
station when conducting resupply. A DSSB can also conduct modular system exchange operations with a
BSB or FSC.

ECHELONED SUSTAINMENT
3-87. Echeloned sustainment is an array of capabilities placed at critical locations to link and facilitate
support between echelons in an area of operations. Echeloned sustainment provides relatively seamless
support, extends operational reach, increases combat power, and allows commanders to maintain momentum.
3-88. The BSB is organized to facilitate echeloned support, with the FSCs serving as a key element. FSCs
are specifically designed and dedicated to link BSB support to maneuver battalions and have the requisite
capability to execute the support. The FSC eliminates the need for the BSB to develop ad hoc support
elements or arrangements. The FSCs are an integral part of the brigade trains concept.
Note. For simplicity in the remaining sections, maneuver company, battery, and troop trains will
be referred to as company trains.

TRAINS CONCEPT
3-89. The brigade uses the trains approach to establish an echeloned sustainment support structure utilizing
field trains, combat trains, and company trains. Trains are groupings of personnel, vehicles, and equipment
that provide sustainment to the battalions and subordinate companies of the supported brigade. The trains are
arrayed across the area of operations and link supported units to the BSB and echelons above brigade units
for support.
3-90. The field trains and combat trains are positioned and controlled by the battalion, and company trains
are positioned and controlled by the supported company. The field and combat trains normally establish a
CP that controls the sustainment activities at their respective echelon and that act as an alternate battalion or
brigade CP if required. The FSC will position key leaders at each node across the battlefield based on mission
variables. Typically, the FSC commander, first sergeant, and executive officer will each occupy a node, and
may shift positions based on the tactical situation. Figure 3-3 depicts an example of echeloned sustainment
using field, combat, and company trains.

54

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

Figure 3-3. Notional echeloned sustainment using field, combat, and company trains
3-91. Distances will vary from operation to operation and units must be located within range for maximum
effectiveness. Units at all echelons must consider operational and mission variables when locating units and
the impact the distances have on sustainment support. Distribution platform capability and convoy security
are considerations when determining distances.
3-92. The planning factor for line haul operations is two trips per day (one trip per shift) at approximately
144 kilometers each way per shift. The planning factor for local haul operations is four trips per day (two
trips per shift) at approximately 34 kilometers each way per shift. For more detailed information, refer to
ATP 4-11.

Field Trains
3-93. The primary task of the field trains is to receive, configure, and deliver all classes of supplies to the
companies via LOGPAC. Field trains also provide all classes of supplies to the combat trains. Each maneuver
battalion normally task organizes a field trains element to provide a centralized location for controlling
battalion sustainment support. The maneuver battalion’s HHC commander or designated representative (such
as an executive officer or first sergeant) can control the field trains, which include battalion sustainment
assets not located with the combat trains. The field trains are normally positioned in the BSA.
3-94. The FSC places personnel in the field trains that can facilitate the distribution integration functions to
ensure timely distribution of all supply classes to the supported battalion. Their primary function is to
communicate maneuver battalion support requirements to the BSB SPO section and to coordinate for

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

55

Chapter 3

transportation to distribute supplies. Figure 3-4 depicts a normal LOGPAC operation utilizing the field trains
for routine resupply.
3-95. The FTCP serves the following functions:
• Synchronizes and integrates the brigade sustainment concept of support.
• Coordinates logistics requirements with the BSB SPO section.
• Configures LOGPACs tailored to support requirements.
• Coordinates with the brigade for personnel services and replacement operations.
• Forecasts and coordinates future sustainment requirements.
• Coordinates retrograde of equipment.
• Coordinates retrograde of personnel including casualty evacuation, personnel movement, and
evacuation of human remains.

Figure 3-4. Notional routine resupply of a combined arms battalion via field trains

Combat Trains
3-96. The main task of the combat trains is to regenerate combat power. Combat trains usually consist of
elements of the battalion S-1 and S-4 sections, the battalion aid station, the MCP, and other selected elements
of the FSC. The FSC typically positions its commander or first sergeant, field feeding section, portions of
the distribution platoon, maintenance control officer, and portions of the maintenance platoon in the combat
trains. The battalion commander positions key personnel, staff, and subordinate company leaders and assets
in the trains based on the best location to support the mission. Commanders consider mission variables when
selecting the location for their combat trains.
3-97. When established, the CTCP plans and coordinates sustainment operations in support of the tactical
operation. The CTCP serves as the focal point for all administrative and logistics functions for the battalion
or squadron. It may serve as an alternate CP for the battalion main CP. The battalion S-4 usually serves as
the CTCP officer in charge and the maintenance control officer usually serves as the MCP officer in charge.
The FSC commander or the maneuver battalion HHC commander is present to exercise command over the
CTCP. The decision as to which company commander is present at the CTCP and FTCP remains with the
maneuver battalion commander. Figure 3-5 provides an example of a notional layout of combat trains.
3-98. The CTCP serves the following functions:
• Tracks the current battle.

56

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

•
•
•
•
•
•

Controls sustainment support to the current operation.
Provides sustainment representation to the main CP for planning and integration.
Monitors supply routes and controls the sustainment flow of materiel and personnel.
Coordinates evacuation of casualties, equipment, and detainees.
Facilitates regeneration of combat power by returning treated Soldiers and repaired equipment to
the company area of operations.
Maintains an amount of emergency critical supplies on hand.

Figure 3-5. Emergency resupply of a combined arms battalion via combat trains.

Company, Battery, and Troop Trains
3-99. As with field and combat trains, company trains consolidate support personnel in a single location to
facilitate unit resupply and medical support. The primary role of the company trains is to evacuate casualties
and non-mission capable vehicles from the company area to battalion collection points and to request and
distribute company supplies.
3-100. Company trains perform five key functions:
• Submit LOGSTATs to request resupply (via radio, digital, or paper) to the CTCP, with Class III and
Class V prioritized.
• Facilitate the repair and return of combat vehicles by the FMT to the maneuver companies.
• Conduct resupply via LRP operations.
• Provide evacuation of casualties to Role 1.
• Perform evacuation of non-mission capable vehicles to the MCP in the CTCP.

COLLECTION, EXCHANGE, AND RELEASE POINTS
3-101. On the battlefield during large-scale combat operations, there are a series of collection, exchange, and
release points that pertain to the BSB and its supported brigade. This allows for maneuver elements to receive
resupply, evacuate battle-damaged equipment, and evacuate injured or deceased Soldiers. In echeloned
sustainment, the most used collection, exchange, and release points are—
• MCPs.
• MACPs.
• CCPs.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

57

Chapter 3

•

Ambulance shuttle system points:
▪ Ambulance exchange point.
▪ Ambulance loading point.
▪ Ambulance relay point.
▪ Ambulance control point.

Maintenance Collection Point
3-102. Units position the MCP where recovery vehicles have access, or where maintenance personnel
perform major or difficult maintenance. The combat trains must be mobile enough to support frequent
changes in location (time and terrain permitting) under the following conditions:
• When heavy use or traffic in the area may cause detection.
• The area becomes worn by heavy use such as in wet and muddy conditions.
• Security is compromised.

Mortuary Affairs Collection Point
3-103. MACPs are designed to be highly mobile, tailorable, and located in forward logistics support areas.
For more information on the MACP, refer to ATP 4-46.
3-104. The core functions of an MACP are—
• Receive, safeguard, store, and evacuate human remains and personal effects.
• Initiate or continue chain of custody.
• Establish tentative identification (name association).
• Complete required documentation and initiate Mortuary Affairs Reporting and Tracking System
case entry.
• Provide dignity, honor, reverence, and respect.
• Perform tasks and provide essential services in direct support of efforts to honor the fallen.

Casualty Collection Point
3-105. A casualty collection point is a location that may or may not be staffed, where casualties are assembled
for evacuation to a medical treatment facility (ATP 4-02.2). CCPs are normally predesignated along the axis
of advance or evacuation routes. These points facilitate acquisition of casualties by supporting ambulance
teams and reduce evacuation time. When used by the battalion aid station, CCPs help preserve battalion aid
station mobility, preclude carrying casualties forward, and reduce evacuation time to the sustainment area.
The CCP should be supervised by a senior leader, designated by the commander, based on mission variables.
3-106. CCPs should be planned and implemented with the following considerations:
• Proximity to potential contact.
• Accessibility of standard and nonstandard evacuation platforms.
• Defense from direct and indirect fire.
• Overall base defense plan.
• Medical and evacuation supplies available.
3-107. CCPs should primarily be manned by no less than three aid and litter team members trained in combat
lifesaver/tactical combat casualty care-combat lifesaver. Combat medics may be assigned to clear CCPs as
the mission allows, but their absence should not slow the treatment or movement of casualties.

Ambulance Shuttle System Points
3-108. The ambulance shuttle system is an organized network designed to facilitate the efficient movement
and evacuation of patients from the battlefield to MTFs. It consists of various points including ambulance
exchange points, loading points, relay points, and control points, each serving a specific function to
streamline the evacuation process. For additional information on the use of the ambulance shuttle system,
refer to ATP 4-02.2.

58

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Sustainment Planning and Support Operations

Ambulance Exchange Point
3-109. An ambulance exchange point is a location where a patient is transferred from one ambulance to
another enroute to a medical treatment facility (ATP 4-02.2). This is crucial for continuing their journey to
an MTF without delay. Changing the location of these points frequently is important to avoid making them
targets for enemy fire.
Ambulance Loading Point
3-110. This is a point in the shuttle system where one or more ambulances are stationed ready to receive
patients for evacuation. This setup ensures that there is always an ambulance ready to respond promptly to
emergency needs, streamlining the process of patient transport. The evacuation staging area may serve as an
ambulance loading point.
Ambulance Relay Point
3-111. This is a point in the shuttle system where one or more empty ambulances are stationed. They are
ready to advance to a loading point or to the next relay post to replace an ambulance that has moved. As a
control measure, relay points are generally numbered from forward to rear.
Ambulance Control Point
3-112. This consists of a Soldier (from the ambulance company or platoon) stationed at a crossroad or road
junction where ambulances may take one of multiple directions to reach loading points. The Soldier, knowing
from which location each loaded ambulance has come, directs empty ambulances.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

59

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix A

Standard Mission-Essential Task List
Company-sized and above Army units develop a mission-essential task list which enables
commanders to assess training readiness. Army units organized with a table of organization
and equipment have a proponent-developed standard mission-essential task list. A unit’s
standard task list represents the training an individual unit needs to be proficient and
accomplish their specific mission. The standard mission-essential task list consists of missionessential tasks and supporting collective tasks. This appendix provides background information
about the standard task list and lists the BSB standard mission-essential tasks. The most current
mission-essential tasks and supporting collective tasks are available on the Army Training
Network.

UNIT TRAINING
A-1. The Army trains to provide forces ready to conduct large-scale combat operations. The Army does this
by executing tough, realistic, and challenging training. Unit and individual training occur all the time at home
station, combat training centers, and while deployed. Training is the cornerstone of readiness. To achieve a
high degree of readiness, the Army trains in the most efficient and effective manner possible. Realistic
training with limited time and resources demands that commanders focus their unit training efforts to
maximize training proficiency.
A-2. Units measure proficiency in individual, leader, and collective tasks against published standards. The
Army recognizes proficiency as complete task proficiency, advanced task proficiency, basic task proficiency,
limited task proficiency, or cannot perform the task. All unit leaders are responsible for quality training.
A-3. A battle-focused unit trains selectively. It cannot train to standard on every task at once, whether due
to time or other resource constraints. Battle-focused training focuses on the tasks to train, based on the higher
commander's guidance, considering limited time and resources.
A-4. The concept of mission-essential tasks provides the commander a process to provide the unit its battle
focus. A mission-essential task is a collective task on which an organization trains to be proficient in its
designed capabilities or assigned mission (FM 7-0). A mission-essential task list (METL) is a tailored group
of mission-essential tasks, and each aligns with the collective tasks that support it.
A-5. The unit task list is a list of collective tasks the unit is designed to perform based on the unit's role,
mission, functions, capabilities, personnel, equipment, and employment. Commanders identify which tasks
the unit is unable to train to proficiency due to resources, manpower, time constraints, or higher headquarters'
priorities. The commander then identifies the risks associated with lack of training to the higher headquarters
commander.

MISSION-ESSENTIAL TASKS
A-6. Units organized with a table of organization and equipment have an approved METL based on echelon
and organizational capabilities. The BSB and its subordinate companies have standard METLs. The
Combined Arms Support Command develops the unit METL for logistics units, then staffs those standard
METLs and collective tasks with the Army Commands and Army Service component commands.
Headquarters, Department of the Army then approves and publishes the standard METLs and collective tasks.
METLs can be found on the Army Training Network, the Digital Training Management System, and the
Combined Arms Training Strategy.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

61

Appendix A

BRIGADE SUPPORT BATTALION MISSION-ESSENTIAL TASK LIST
A-7. The most current standard METLs may be found on the Army Training Network. The current
maneuver brigade BSB standard mission-essential tasks are listed below:
• Conduct Expeditionary Deployment Operations at Battalion Level.
• Conduct Sustainment Operations.
• Coordinate Distribution Support.
• Direct Establishment of Subordinate Units and Headquarters Elements.
• Conduct Actions Associated with Area Defense.

62

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Glossary
This glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. Where Army and joint
definitions differ, (Army) precedes the definition. Terms for which ATP 4-90 is the proponent
are marked with an asterisk (*) before the term. For other terms, it lists the proponent
publication in parentheses after the definition.

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADP

Army doctrine publication

AHS

Army Health System

ASB

aviation support battalion

ATHP
ATP
BDAR

Army techniques publication
battle damage assessment and repair

BSA

brigade support area

BSB

brigade support battalion

BSMC
CAB
CBRN
CCP
CP

brigade support medical company
combat aviation brigade
chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
casualty collection point
command post

CSSB

combat sustainment support battalion

CTCP

combat trains command post

DA
DIVARTY

Department of the Army
division artillery

DSB

division sustainment brigade

DSSB

division sustainment support battalion

FAB

field artillery brigade

FARP

forward arming and refueling point

FLE

forward logistics element

FM

field manual

FMC

field maintenance company

FMT

field maintenance team

FRSD

forward resuscitative and surgical detachment

FSC

forward support company

FTCP

field trains command post

G-4
GCSS-Army
GSB

26 J

ammunition transfer holding point

2026

assistant chief of staff, logistics
Global Combat Support System-Army
group support battalion

ATP 4-90

63

Glossary

HHC

headquarters and headquarters company

JP

joint publication

LOGPAC

logistics package

LOGSTAT

logistics status

LRP

logistics release point

LSB

light support battalion

MACP

mortuary affairs collection point

MATP

modular ammunition transfer point

MCP

maintenance collection point

MDMP

military decision-making process

MDTF

multi-domain task force

METL

mission-essential task list

MSR

main supply route

MTF

medical treatment facility

NCO

noncommissioned officer

OE

operational environment

ROM

refuel on-the-move

S-1

battalion or brigade personnel staff officer

S-2

battalion or brigade intelligence staff officer

S-3

battalion or brigade operations staff officer

S-4

battalion or brigade logistics staff officer

S-6

battalion or brigade signal staff officer

SASMO

sustainment automation support management office

SFAB

security force assistance brigade

SOP

standard operating procedure

SPO

support operations

SSA

supply support activity

TB MED
U.S.

technical bulletin (medical)
United States

SECTION II – TERMS
ambulance exchange point
A location where a patient is transferred from one ambulance to another enroute to a medical treatment
facility. (ATP 4-02.2)
area of operations
An operational area defined by a commander for the land or maritime force commander to accomplish
their missions and protect their forces. (JP 3-0)
*area support
A task assigned to a sustainment unit directing it to support units in or passing through a specified
location.
attach
The placement of units or personnel in an organization where such placement is relatively temporary.
(JP 3-0)

64

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Glossary

casualty collection point
A location that may or may not be staffed, where casualties are assembled for evacuation to a medical
treatment facility. (ATP 4-02.2)
combat power
The total means of destructive and disruptive force that a military unit/formation can apply against an
enemy at a given time. (JP 3-0)
*echeloned sustainment
An array of capabilities placed at critical locations to link and facilitate support between echelons in an
area of operations.
forward arming and refueling point
A temporary facility, organized, equipped, and deployed, to provide fuel and ammunition necessary for
the employment of aviation maneuver units in combat. (JP 3-09.3)
*forward logistics element
A task-organized collection of multifunctional logistics assets designed to maintain responsiveness of
support to operations.
main command post
A portion of a unit headquarters containing the majority of the staff designed to command and control
current operations, conduct detailed analysis, and plan future operations. (FM 6-0)
maintenance collection point
A temporary location established within the battalion echelon for the collection of equipment needing
or undergoing field maintenance. (ATP 4-33)
materiel
All items necessary to equip, operate, maintain, and support military activities without distinction as to
its application for administrative or combat purposes. (JP 4-0)
operational environment
The aggregate of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of
capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander. (JP 3-0)
throughput distribution
A method of distribution that bypasses one or more intermediate supply echelons in the supply system
to avoid multiple handling. (ATP 4-92)

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

65

This page intentionally left blank.

References
All websites accessed 1 July 2025.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. 15 December 2025.
FM 1-02.1. Operational Terms. 28 February 2024.
FM 1-02.2. Military Symbols. 23 January 2025.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
These documents are cited in this publication.

JOINT PUBLICATIONS
Most joint publications are available online: https://www.jcs.mil/Doctrine/.
JP 3-0. Joint Campaigns and Operations. 18 June 2022.
JP 3-09.3. Joint Close Air Support. 10 June 2019.
JP 4-0. Joint Logistics. 20 July 2023.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil.
ADP 3-37. Protection. 10 January 2024.
ADP 5-0. The Operations Process. 31 July 2019.
ATP 3-04.7. Army Aviation Maintenance. 20 October 2020.
ATP 3-04.17. Techniques for Forward Arming and Refueling Points. 4 June 2018.
ATP 3-09.24. The Field Artillery Brigade. 30 March 2022.
ATP 3-09.90. Division Artillery Operations and Fire Support for the Division. 12 October 2017.
ATP 3-12.3. Electromagnetic Warfare Techniques. 30 January 2023.
ATP 3-37.34/MCTP 3-34C. Survivability Operations. 16 April 2018.
ATP 3-57.60. Civil Affairs Planning. 7 May 2024.
ATP 3-90.1. Armor and Mechanized Infantry Company Team. 24 October 2023.
ATP 3-96.1. Security Force Assistance Brigade. 11 June 2025.
ATP 4-0.6. Sustainment Automation Support Management Office Operations. 17 January 2024.
ATP 4-02.2. Medical Evacuation. 12 July 2019.
ATP 4-02.6. The Medical Company (Role 2). 8 November 2022.
ATP 4-02.10. Army Hospitalization (Role 3). 14 August 2025.
ATP 4-02.13. Casualty Evacuation. 30 June 2021.
ATP 4-02.55. Army Health System Support Planning. 30 March 2020.
ATP 4-11. Army Motor Transport Operations. 14 August 2020.
ATP 4-31/ MCRP 3-40E.1. Ground Equipment Battle Damage Assessment, Repair, and Recovery.
1 April 2025.
ATP 4-33. Maintenance Operations. 9 January 2024.
ATP 4-35. Munitions Operations. 31 January 2023.

26 J

2026

ATP 4-90

67

References

ATP 4-35.1. Ammunition and Explosives Handler Safety Techniques. 8 November 2021.
ATP 4-41. Army Field Feeding and Class I Operations. 31 December 2015.
ATP 4-42. Materiel Management, Supply, And Field Services Operations. 2 November 2020.
ATP 4-42.2. Supply Support Activity Operations. 18 September 2024.
ATP 4-43. Petroleum Supply Operations. 18 April 2022.
ATP 4-44/MCRP 3-40D.14. Water Support Operations. 16 September 2025.
ATP 4-46/MCRP 3-40G.3/NTTP 4-06/AFTTP 3-2.51. Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures for Mortuary Affairs in Theaters of Operations. 3 August 2022.
ATP 4-48. Aerial Delivery. 28 August 2023.
ATP 4-91. Division Sustainment Operations. 8 November 2022.
ATP 4-92. Field Army and Corps Sustainment Operations. 14 March 2023.
FM 3-0. Operations. 21 March 2025.
FM 3-11. Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations. 10 April 2025.
FM 3-16. The Army in Multinational Operations. 15 July 2024.
FM 3-83. Religious Affairs. 11 April 2025.
FM 3-96. Brigade Combat Team. 19 January 2021.
FM 4-0. Sustainment Operations. 14 August 2024.
FM 4-1. Human Resources Support. 15 September 2025.
FM 6-0. Commander and Staff Organizations and Operations. 16 May 2022.
FM 6-02. Signal Support to Operations. 13 September 2019.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C. The Commander’s Handbook on the Law of Land Warfare. 7 August 2019.
FM 7-0. Training. 14 June 2021.
TB MED 577/ NAVMED P-5010-10/ AFMAN 48-138_IP. Sanitary Control and Surveillance of Field
Water Supplies. 1 May 2010.

WEBSITES
GCSS-Army Home Page. https://www.gcss.army.mil.
Army Sustainment Resource Portal. https://cascom.army.mil/asrp/index.html.
Army Training Network. https://atn.army.mil/.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA Forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate (APD) website at
https://armypubs.army.mil/.
DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.
DA Form 5517. Standard Range Card.

68

ATP 4-90

26 J

2026

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.

A-B
brigade support area, 1-9,
2-38–2-66, 2-69,

26 J

2026

C-E
combat trains, 3-89, 3-96–3-98,
3-102

ATP 4-90

F-Z
field trains, 2-124, 3-89–3-90,
3-93–3-95

69

This page intentionally left blank.

ATP 4-90
26 January 2026

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

RANDY A. GEORGE
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

A

ANN

Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army
2602102

DISTRIBUTION:
electronic media only (EMO).

Distributed in

This page intentionally left blank.

PIN:104022-000

