TC 3-21.76

HANDBOOK
Not for the weak
or fainthearted
SEPTEMBER 2025
DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
This publication supersedes TC 3-21.76, dated 26 April 2017.

Headquarters, Department of the Army

Introduction
RANGER HISTORY
The history of the American Ranger is a long and colorful saga of courage, daring, and outstanding leadership.
It is a story of warfighters whose skills in the art of fighting have seldom been surpassed. Only the highlights of
their numerous exploits are told here.
Rangers mainly performed defensive missions until, during King Philip’s War in 1675, Benjamin Church’s
Company of Independent Rangers from Plymouth Colony conducted raids on hostile American Indians. Upon
the onset of the French and Indian War, provincial Captain Robert Rogers recruited nine companies of colonists
to fight for the British. Ranger techniques and methods of operation were inherent to American frontiersmen.
Rogers, who earned promotion to major through the process, became the first to capitalize on those and
incorporate them into the fighting doctrine of a permanently organized force.
During the Revolutionary War, Colonel Daniel Morgan, who organized a unit known as Morgan’s Riflemen,
further developed the first Rangers’ method of fighting. Francis Marion, the Swamp Fox, organized another
famous Revolutionary War Ranger element known as Marion’s Partisans. They numbered anywhere from a
handful to several hundred, and they operated both with and independent of other elements of General George
Washington’s Army. Operating out of Carolinian swamps, they disrupted British communications and prevented
the organization of Loyalists to support the British cause, substantially contributing to the American victory.
The U.S.-American Civil War again occasioned the creation of special units like Rangers. John Mosby, a master
in the prompt, skillful use of cavalry, was one of the most outstanding Confederate Rangers. He believed
resorting to aggressive action could compel enemies to guard a hundred points. He would then attack one of the
weakest points, thereby ensuring numerical superiority.
With the entry of the United States into the Second World War, Rangers added to these pages of history.
Major William Darby organized and activated the 1st Ranger Battalion on June 19, 1942, at Carrickfergus,
Northern Ireland. The members all handpicked volunteers, 50 participated in the Dieppe Raid of the French
coast with British and Canadian commandos. The 1st, 3rd, and 4th Ranger Battalions participated in the North
African, Sicilian, and Italian campaigns. Darby’s Ranger battalions spearheaded the Seventh Army landing at
Gela and Licata during the Sicilian invasion and played a key role in the subsequent campaign, which ended in
the capture of Messina. They infiltrated German lines and mounted an attack against Cisterna, where they
annihilated a German parachute regiment during close-in, night, bayonet, and hand-to-hand fighting.
The participation of the 2nd and 5th Ranger Battalions in the D-Day landings of Operation Overlord at Omaha
Beach inspired the words that would become the Rangers’ official motto, “Rangers lead the way!” They
spearheaded the drive inland to destroy the German gun emplacements trained on the beaches and enabled Allied
forces to move away from their fire. In particular, the 5th Ranger Battalion scaled the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc.
The 6th Ranger Battalion, operating in the Pacific, conducted Ranger-type missions behind enemy lines of
reconnaissance and long-range raids. It was the first U.S.-American group to return to the Philippines, destroying
key coastal installations prior to the invasion. A reinforced company formed the rescue force who liberated
U.S.-American and Allied prisoners of war from the Japanese prison camp at Cabanatuan.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

xvii

Introduction
Another Ranger-type unit of the Second World War was the 5307th Composite Unit (Provisional) under
Major General Frank Merrill, after whom they came to be known as Merrill’s Marauders. Volunteers from the
5th, 14th, and 33rd Infantry Regiments and from other Infantry regiments engaged in combat in the
China-Burma-India Theater brought experience from jungle-trained and -tested units to learn and employ
long-range penetration tactics for the jungle environment. The coordinated offensive campaign for Allied forces
to gain control of north Burma employed them behind enemy lines in Japanese-controlled areas. In coordinated
operations with the Chinese 22nd and 38th Divisions, they cleared the way for the construction of Ledo Road.
They conducted missions in the jungles and mountains from Hukawng Valley to the Irrawaddy River. By
disrupting Japanese supply lines and communications, they enabled Chinese southward movement. Their final
victory was the capture of Myitkyina airfield, after which the unit disbanded in 1944. Remaining personnel
merged into the 475th Infantry Regiment, which fought its last battle in 1945 at Loi-kang Ridge, China. The
475th Infantry Regiment is the progenitor of the 75th Ranger Regiment.
Soon after the Korean War started in June 1950, the 8th Army Ranger Company formed of volunteers from
U.S.-American units in Japan. The company trained in Korea and distinguished itself in combat during the drive
to the Yalu River, performing task force and spearhead operations. During the massive Chinese intervention of
November 1950, this small, vastly outnumbered unit withstood five enemy assaults on its position.
In September 1950, a Department of the Army message called for volunteers to train as Airborne Rangers.
Five thousand regular Army paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division volunteered. Nine hundred were
chosen to form the first eight Airborne Ranger companies. Regular Army and National Guard Infantry division
volunteers composed nine more companies. These 17 Airborne Ranger companies were activated and trained at
Fort Benning, Georgia. Most received more training in the Colorado mountains.
In 1950 and 1951, some 700 men of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 8th Airborne Ranger Companies fought to
the front of every American Infantry division in Korea. Attacking by land, water, and air, these six Ranger
companies raided, penetrated, and ambushed North Korean and Chinese forces. They were the first Rangers to
make combat jumps. After the Chinese intervention, these Rangers were the first U.S.-Americans to recross the
38th parallel. The 2nd Airborne Ranger Company was the only African-American Ranger unit in the history of
the U.S. Army. One in nine of the men of the six Ranger companies fighting in Korea died on the battlefields.
Other Airborne Ranger companies served with Infantry divisions in the United States, Germany, and Japan.
These volunteers fought as members of line Infantry units in Korea. They volunteered for the Army, Airborne,
and Rangers and for combat. The first to wear the coveted Ranger tab, these men are the original Airborne
Rangers. One Ranger, Donn Porter, received the Medal of Honor posthumously. Fourteen Korean War Rangers
rose to general officer. Dozens more became colonels, senior noncommissioned officers, and civilian leaders.
In 1951, Army Chief of Staff General J. Lawton Collins directed the extension of Ranger training to all Army
combat units. He directed the Commandant of the Infantry School to establish a Ranger Department. This new
department would develop and conduct the Ranger course of instruction. His goal was to raise the standard of
training in all combat units. The program built on lessons learned from the Second World War and Korean War.
During the Vietnam Conflict, 14 Ranger companies served from the Mekong Delta to the demilitarized zone,
conducting long-range reconnaissance and exploitation operations and providing combat information. Initially
designated long-range reconnaissance patrol and later long-range patrol companies, these units received
designations C through P (with the exception of any Juliet Company) Rangers, 75th Infantry.

xviii

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Introduction
After Vietnam, Army Chief of Staff General Creighton Abrams recognized the need for a highly trained and
highly mobile reaction force. He activated the first battalion-sized Ranger units since the Second World War—
the 1st and 2nd Battalions (Ranger), 75th Infantry. The 1st Battalion trained at Fort Benning and was activated
February 8, 1974, at Fort Stewart, both in Georgia. The 2nd Battalion was activated on October 1, 1974. The
1st Battalion is now based at Hunter Army Airfield, Georgia. The 2nd Battalion is based at Fort Lewis,
Washington.
In April 1980, members of C Company 1/75 supported Operation Eagle Claw, the attempt to rescue
U.S.-American hostages in Iran. Although the mission failed, the tactics, techniques, and procedures developed
by the company further enhanced Ranger capabilities.
General Abrams’s farsighted decision and the combat effectiveness of the Ranger battalions were proven during
Operation Urgent Fury, the invasion of Grenada, in 1983. The mission was to protect U.S. citizens and restore
democracy. The Ranger battalions conducted a low-level airborne assault to seize the Point Salines airfield.
They continued operations for several days, eliminating pockets of resistance and rescuing U.S.-American
students. Due to this success, in 1984, the Department of the Army increased the strength of Ranger units to
their highest level in 40 years. To do this, it activated another Ranger battalion and a Ranger Regimental
Headquarters. After this 3rd Battalion (Ranger), 75th Infantry and Headquarters Company (Ranger),
75th Infantry were activated, Ranger units received over 2,000 Soldier assignations. On February 3, 1986, the
75th Infantry was renamed the 75th Ranger Regiment.
The first time the regimental headquarters and all three Ranger battalions deployed together was during
Operation Just Cause in 1989. The 75th Ranger Regiment spearheaded the assault into Panama by conducting
airborne assaults on the Torrijos–Tocumen Airport and Rio Hato Airfield. Its mission was to facilitate the
restoration of democracy in Panama and to protect the lives of U.S. citizens. Between December 20, 1989 and
January 7, 1990, the regiment performed many follow-on missions in Panama.
Elements of the 75th Ranger Regiment deployed to Saudi Arabia to support Operation Desert Storm in 1991; to
Somalia to support Operation Restore Hope in 1993; to Haiti to support Operation Uphold Democracy in 1994;
and to Kosovo to support Operation Joint Guardian in 2000 and 2001.
Since September 11, 2001, the 75th Ranger Regiment has led the way in establishing democracy. In 2001,
elements of the regiment deployed to Afghanistan to support Operation Enduring Freedom. In 2003, elements
deployed to support Operation Iraqi Freedom. The regiment spearheaded the campaign against senior-level
members of Al Qaeda and the Taliban in both theaters during the deployment of U.S. Forces to Afghanistan and
Iraq. Additionally, Ranger leaders throughout the entire force participated in more than 15 years of combat and
advisor (or advise and assist) operations, serving as points of continuity among a transforming Army.
Rangers continue to contribute significantly to the overall success of operations. The 75th Ranger Regiment
stands ready to execute its special operations mission in support of U.S. policies and objectives. Rangers
throughout the force lead their formations, set the example for fellow Soldiers, and remain ready to defend the
United States against all enemies. Rangers lead the way!

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

xix

Introduction

RANGER CREED
Army Chief of Staff General Creighton Abrams ordered the formation of the Ranger battalions in 1974, and he
directed that they would set the standards for the Army. Command Sergeant Major Neal Gentry wrote the Ranger
Creed, which maintains a code of ethics and philosophy for Rangers to adopt and adapt and which embraces the
spirit, discipline, and duty that are the hallmarks of all Rangers, whether in times of peace or of war.

RANGER CREED
•

Recognizing that I volunteered as a Ranger, fully knowing the hazards of my chosen profession,
I will always endeavor to uphold the prestige, honor, and high esprit de corps of my Ranger
Regiment.

•

Acknowledging the fact that a Ranger is a more elite soldier, who arrives at the cutting edge of
battle by land, sea, or air, I accept the fact that as a Ranger, my country expects me to move
further, faster, and fight harder than any other soldier.

•

Never shall I fail my comrades. I will always keep myself mentally alert, physically strong, and
morally straight, and I will shoulder more than my share of the task, whatever it may be,
one hundred percent and then some.

•

Gallantly will I show the world that I am a specially selected and well trained soldier. My courtesy
to superior officers, neatness of dress, and care of equipment shall set the example for others
to follow.

•

Energetically will I meet the enemies of my country. I shall defeat them on the field of battle for I
am better trained and will fight with all my might. Surrender is not a Ranger word. I will never
leave a fallen comrade to fall into the hands of the enemy and under no circumstances will I ever
embarrass my country.

•

Readily will I display the intestinal fortitude required to fight on to the Ranger objective and
complete the mission, though I be the lone survivor.

ROGERS’S RANGERS
In the 1750s, Major Robert Rogers drafted 28 rules of discipline for his ranging school training plan. They
served as a manual on guerrilla warfare for Rogers’s Ranger company, comprising 600 members selected by
Rogers. A little over 200 years later, Army Ranger doctrine adopted and incorporated a more popular rendition—
based in the 1930s on Rogers’s original tactics—into 19 rules, which stand to this day as part of Rangers legend.
xx

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Introduction

STANDING ORDERS
•

Don’t forget nothing.

•

Have your musket clean as a whistle, hatchet scoured, sixty rounds powder and ball, and be
ready to march at a minute’s warning.

•

When you’re on the march, act the way you would if you was sneaking up on a deer. See the
enemy first.

•

Tell the truth about what you see and what you do. There is an army depending on us for correct
information. You can lie all you please when you tell other folks about the Rangers, but don’t
never lie to a Ranger or officer.

•

Don’t never take a chance you don’t have to.

•

When we’re on the march we march single file, far enough apart so one shot can’t go through
two men.

•

If we strike swamps, or soft ground, we spread out abreast, so it’s hard to track us.

•

When we march, we keep moving till dark, so as to give the enemy the least possible chance at
us.

•

When we camp, half the party stays awake while the other half sleeps.

•

If we take prisoners, we keep ‘em separate till we have had time to examine them, so they can’t
cook up a story between ‘em.

•

Don’t ever march home the same way. Take a different route so you won’t be ambushed.

•

No matter whether we travel in big parties or little ones, each party has to keep a scout 20 yards
ahead, 20 yards on each flank, and 20 yards in the rear so the main body can’t be surprised and
wiped out.

•

Every night you’ll be told where to meet if surrounded by a superior force.

•

Don’t sit down to eat without posting sentries.

•

Don’t sleep beyond dawn. Dawn’s when the French and Indians attack.

•

Don’t cross a river by a regular ford.

•

If somebody’s trailing you, make a circle, come back onto your own tracks, and ambush the folks
that aim to ambush you.

•

Don’t stand up when the enemy’s coming against you. Kneel down, lie down, hide behind a tree.

•

Let the enemy come till he’s almost close enough to touch. Then let him have it and jump out
and finish him up with your hatchet.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

xxi

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 1
Leadership
An Army leader is anyone who, by virtue of assumed role or assigned responsibility,
inspires and influences people to accomplish organizational goals. Army leaders motivate
people inside and outside the chain of command to pursue actions, focus thinking, and
shape decisions for the greater good of the organization. Leadership is the process of
influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish the
mission and improve the organization.

PRINCIPLES
1-1. Leadership, the most essential element of combat power, gives purpose, direction, and motivation in
combat. The leader balances and maximizes maneuver, firepower, and protection against the enemy. This
chapter discusses how a leader does this by exploring the principles of leadership; the duties, responsibilities,
and actions of an effective leader; and the leader’s assumption of command.
1-2. The leadership requirements model establishes what leaders need to be, know, and do. (See table 1-1.) A
core set of requirements informs leaders about expectations. Leaders’ adherence to these requirements sets them
on the process to influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish the mission
and improve the organization.
Table 1-1. Leadership requirements model

ATTRIBUTES
Character
Army values
Empathy
Warrior ethos
Service ethos
Discipline

Presence
Military and professional bearing
Fitness
Confidence
Resilience

Intellect
Mental agility
Sound judgment
Innovation
Interpersonal tact
Expertise

Leads
Leads others.
Builds trust.
Extends influence beyond
the chain of command.
Leads by example.
Communicates.

Develops
Creates a positive environment and
fosters esprit de corps.
Prepares self.
Develops others.
Stewards the profession.

Achieves
Gets results.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

1-1

Chapter 1
Table 1-1. Leadership requirements model (continued)

COMPETENCIES
Oath to Constitution.
Subordinate to law and
civilian authority.

Combat
power: unifier
and multiplier.

Influence: commitment,
compliance, and
resistance.

LEVELS OF
LEADERSHIP

Direct – refine ability to apply competencies at a proficient level.
Organizational – apply competencies to increasingly complex situations.
Situational – adjust actions to complex and uncertain environments.

SPECIAL CONDITIONS
OF LEADERSHIP

Formal – designated by rank or position. (Command is an example.)
Informal – initiative taken and appropriate special expertise applied.
Collective – synergy achieved with multiple leaders aligned by purpose.
Situational – actions adjusted to complex and uncertain environments.

Positive and harmful
forms of leadership.

OUTCOMES
Secured United States interests.
Mission success.
Sound decisions.

Expertly led organizations.
Stewardship of resources.
Stronger families.

Fit units.
Healthy climates.
Engaged Soldiers and Civilians.

1-3. To complete all assigned tasks, all the Rangers in a patrol do their jobs. Each accomplishes specific duties
and responsibilities and is part of the team. This includes the platoon leader (PL), platoon sergeant (PSG), squad
leader (SL), weapons squad leader (WSL), team leader (TL), medic, radio operator, and forward observer (FO).
PLATOON LEADER
1-4. The PL is responsible for what the patrol does or fails to do. This includes tactical employment, training,
administration, personnel management, and logistics. The PL manages these responsibilities by planning,
making timely decisions, issuing orders, assigning tasks, and supervising patrol activities.
1-5. The PL knows the Rangers in the platoon and how to employ the patrol’s weapons. The PL is responsible
for positioning and employing all assigned or attached crew-served weapons and for the employment of
supporting weapons. The PL also—
• Establishes the time schedule using reverse planning and incorporates time for execution, movement
to the objective, and the planning and preparation phase of the operation.
• Takes the initiative to accomplish the mission in the absence of orders. Keeps higher
headquarters (HQ) informed through periodic situation reports.
• Plans with the help of the PSG, SLs, and other key personnel such as TLs, FOs, and attachment leaders.
• Stays abreast of the situation by coordinating with adjacent patrols and higher HQ, supervises and
issues fragmentary orders (FRAGORDs), and accomplishes the mission.
• Requests any additional requisite support for performing the patrol’s mission from higher HQ.
• Directs and assists the PSG in planning and coordinating the patrol’s sustainment effort and casualty
evacuation (CASEVAC) plan.
• Receives on-hand status reports from the PSG and SLs during planning.
1-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Leadership
•
•
•
•
•
•

Reviews patrol requirements based on the tactical plan.
Ensures the continuous maintaining of all-around security.
Supervises and spot-checks all assigned tasks and corrects unsatisfactory actions.
Maintains a position to influence the most critical task for mission accomplishment, usually with the
main effort, to ensure the platoon achieves its decisive point during execution.
Commands through the SLs within the intent of the commanders two levels higher.
Conducts rehearsals.

PLATOON SERGEANT
1-6. The PSG is the senior noncommissioned officer in the patrol and second in succession of command. The
PSG helps and advises the PL, leads the patrol in the leader’s absence, supervises the patrol’s administration,
logistics, and maintenance, and prepares and issues paragraph 4 of the operation order (OPORD). The PSG
also—
• Organizes and controls the patrol command post in accordance with the unit’s standard operating
procedure (SOP); the PL’s guidance; and the METT-TC (I) variables: mission, enemy, terrain and
weather, troops and support available, time available, civil considerations, and informational
considerations.
• Maintains patrol status of personnel, weapons, and equipment. Consolidates and forwards the patrol’s
casualty reports through DA Form 1156 (Casualty Feeder Card) and receives and orients
replacements.
• Monitors the morale, discipline, and health of patrol members.
• Supervises and directs the patrol’s medic and aid and litter teams in moving casualties to the rear.
• Ensures the CASEVAC plan is complete and executed properly.
• Supervises task-organized elements of patrol. These include the following:
 Quartering parties.
 Security forces during withdrawals.
 Support elements during raids or attacks.
 Security patrols during night attacks.
• Receives the SL’s requests for rations, water, and ammunition. Works with the company first sergeant
or executive officer to request resupply. Directs the routing of supplies and mail.
• Coordinates and supervises the patrol’s resupply operations.
• Ensures supplies are distributed in accordance with the patrol leader’s guidance and direction.
• Ensures ammunition, supplies, and loads are properly and evenly distributed (a critical task during
consolidation and reorganization).
• Ensures the patrol adheres to the PL’s time schedule.
• Assists the PL in supervising and spot-checking assigned tasks and in correcting unsatisfactory actions.
1-7. During movement and halts, the PSG takes necessary actions to facilitate movement; supervises rear
security during movement; establishes, supervises, and maintains security during halts; performs additional
tasks as required by the PL, and assists in every way possible. The PSG also focuses on security and control of
the patrol.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

1-3

Chapter 1
1-8. At danger areas, the PSG directs the positioning of near side security (usually conducted by the trail squad
or team) and maintains accountability of personnel. During actions on the objective, the PSG—
• Assists with objective rally point occupation.
• Supervises, establishes, and maintains security at the objective rally point.
• Supervises the final preparation of Soldiers, weapons, and equipment in the objective rally point in
accordance with the PL’s guidance.
• Assists the patrol leader in control and security.
• Supervises the consolidation and reorganization of ammunition and equipment.
• Establishes marks, supervises the planned casualty collection point (CCP), and ensures personnel
status including the accurate reporting of wounded in action or killed in action (KIA) to higher HQ.
• Performs additional tasks assigned by the PL and reports status.
1-9. During actions in the patrol base (PB), the PSG assists in PB occupation and in establishing and adjusting
the perimeter. The PSG enforces security in the PB, keeps movement and noise to a minimum, supervises and
enforces camouflage, assigns sectors of fire, and ensures designated personnel remain alert and equipment
maintenance remains at a high state of readiness.
1-10. The PSG requisitions supplies, water, and ammunition and supervises their distribution. The PSG
supervises the priority of work, ensures its accomplishment, and performs additional tasks assigned by the PL.
When creating a security plan, the PSG ensures—
• Crew-served weapons have interlocking sectors of fire.
• Claymore mines’ emplacements cover dead space.
• Range cards and sector sketches are complete. The security plan also includes the following:
 Alert plan.
 Evacuation plan.
 Withdrawal plan.
 Alternate PB.
 Maintenance plan.
 Hygiene plan.
 Messing plan.
 Water plan.
 Rest plan.
SQUAD LEADER
1-11. The SL is responsible for what the squad does or fails to do. The SL is a tactical leader who leads by
example. In addition to completing casualty feeder cards and reviewing the casualty reports completed by squad
members, the SL—
• Directs the maintenance of the squad’s weapons and equipment.
• Inspects the condition of Rangers’ weapons, clothing, and equipment.
• Keeps the PL and PSG informed on the status of the squad.
• Submits the liquids, ammunition, casualties, and equipment (LACE) report to the PSG.

1-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Leadership
1-12. During actions throughout the mission, the SL obtains status reports from the TLs, submits those to the PL
and PSG, makes recommendations to the PL or PSG about observed problems, delegates priority tasks to the
TLs, and supervises their accomplishment in compliance.
1-13. The SL uses initiative in the absence of orders, follows the PL’s plan, and makes recommendations. During
movement and halts, the SL—
• Ensures members rotate heavy equipment and share difficult duties.
• Notifies the PL of the status of the squad.
• Maintains proper movement techniques while monitoring route, pace, and azimuth.
• Ensures the squad maintains security throughout the movement and at halts.
• Prevents breaks in contact.
• Ensures subordinate leaders are disseminating information, assigning sectors of fire, and checking
personnel.
1-14. During actions on the objective, the SL ensures special equipment is ready for actions at the objective and
maintains positive control of the squad during the execution of the mission. The SL also positions key weapon
systems during and after assault on the objective, obtains status reports from the TLs, ensures the redistribution
of ammunition, and reports the status to the PL. When performing actions in the PB, the SL—
• Ensures the PB is occupied in accordance with the plan.
• Ensures interlocking fires coverage over the entire sector of the PB and makes any necessary final
adjustments.
• Sends out listening posts or observation posts (OPs) in front of the assigned sector depending on the
METT-TC (I) variables.
• Ensures the accomplishment of the priorities of work and reports accomplished priorities to the PL and
PSG.
• Adheres to the time schedule.
• Ensures personnel know the alert and evacuation plans and the locations of key leaders, OPs, and the
alternate PB.
WEAPONS SQUAD LEADER
1-15. The WSL is responsible for all the weapons squad does or fails to do. The WSL’s duties are the same as
those of the SL. The WSL also controls the machine guns in support of the patrol’s mission and advises the PL
on employment of the squad. The WSL also—
• Supervises machine gun teams to ensure they follow the priorities of work.
• Inspects machine gun teams for correct range cards, fighting positions, and their understanding of the
fire plan.
• Supervises the maintenance of machine guns, ensuring the correct performance of maintenance, the
correction and reporting of deficiencies, and maintenance performance is not in violation of the
security plan.
• Assists the PL in planning.
• Positions at halts and danger areas any machine guns not attached to squads in accordance with the
patrol’s SOP.
• Rotates loads. (Machine gunners normally get tired first.)
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

1-5

Chapter 1
•
•
•

•
•

Submits LACE report to the PSG.
Designates sectors of fire, the principal direction of fire, and secondary sectors of fire for all guns.
Gives fire commands to achieve maximum effectiveness of firepower. Commands include those to—
 Shift fires.
 Correct windage or elevation to increase accuracy.
 Alternate firing guns.
 Control rates of fire and fire distribution.
Knows locations of assault and security elements and prevents fratricide.
Reports to the PL.

TEAM LEADER
1-16. The TL controls the movement of the fire team and the rate and placement of fire. To do this, the TL leads
from the front and uses the proper commands and signals. The TL maintains accountability of Rangers, weapons,
and equipment and ensures Rangers maintain unit standards in all areas and are knowledgeable of their tasks
and the operation.
1-17. The TL leads by example and has specific duties and responsibilities during mission planning and
execution. The TL takes specific action when orders are issued; specifically, for—
• A warning order (WARNORD) by—
 Assisting in control of the squad.
 Monitoring the squad during the issuance of the order.
• An OPORD’s preparation by—
 Posting changes to the schedule.
 Posting and updating team duties on the WARNORD board.
 Submitting ammunition and supply requests.
 Picking up the ammunition and supplies.
 Distributing the ammunition and special equipment.
 Performing all the given tasks in the SL’s special instruction paragraph.
• An OPORD’s issuance and rehearsal by—
 Monitoring the squad during the issuance of the order.
 Assisting the SL during rehearsals.
 Taking necessary actions to facilitate movement.
 Enforcing rear security.
 Establishing, supervising, and maintaining security.
 Performing other tasks as the SL requires and helping in every way, particularly in control and
security.
1-18. During action in the objective rally point, the TL assists in the occupation of the point and helps supervise,
establish, and maintain security. The TL also—
• Supervises the final preparation of Rangers, weapons, and equipment in the objective rally point in
accordance with the SL’s guidance.
• Assists in control of personnel departing and entering the objective rally point.
• Reorganizes the perimeter after the reconnaissance party departs.
• Maintains communication with higher HQ.
1-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Leadership
•
•
•

Upon the return of the reconnaissance party, helps reorganize personnel and redistribute ammunition
and equipment and ensures the maintaining of accountability of all personnel and equipment.
Disseminates priority intelligence requirements (PIRs) to the team.
Performs additional tasks assigned by the SL.

1-19. During actions on the objective, the TL ensures special equipment is ready and maintains positive control
of the fire team. The TL also controls the movement and maneuver of individual fire team members and assists
in positioning key weapon systems during and after the assault on the objective. During actions in the PB, the
TL—
• Inspects the perimeter to ensure the team has interlocking sectors of fire.
• Prepares the team sector sketch.
• Enforces the priority of work and ensures the team accomplishes it properly.
• Upon the return of the reconnaissance party, helps reorganize personnel and redistribute ammunition
and equipment and ensures the maintaining of accountability of all personnel and equipment.
• Disseminates the PIRs to the team.
• Performs additional tasks assigned by the SL and assists in every way possible.
MEDIC
1-20. The medic assists the PSG in directing the aid and litter teams and monitors the health and hygiene of the
platoon. In addition to treating casualties, conducting triage, and assisting in CASEVACs under the control of
the PSG, the medic—
• Aids the PL or PSG in field hygiene matters, personally checking the health and physical conditions
of platoon members.
• Requests Class VIII (medical materiel) supplies through the PSG.
• Provides technical expertise to combat lifesavers (CLSs) and supervises them.
• Ensures casualty feeder cards are correct and attached to each evacuated casualty.
• Carries out other tasks assigned by the PL or PSG.
RADIO OPERATOR
1-21. The radio operator is responsible for establishing and maintaining communications with higher HQ and
within the patrol. During planning, the radio operator—
• Enters the net at the specified time.
• Ensures all frequencies, communications security fills, and net identifications are preset in squad and
platoon radios.
• Informs the SL and PL of changes to call signs, frequencies, challenges and passwords, and number
combinations based on the appropriate time in the automated net control device.
• Ensures proper functioning of all radios and troubleshoots and reports deficiencies to higher HQ.
• Weatherproofs all communications equipment.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

1-7

Chapter 1
1-22. In addition to serving as an en route recorder during all phases of the mission, the radio operator—
• Tracks time after the initiation of the assault.
• Records all enemy contact and reports it to higher HQ in the size, activity, location, unit, time, and
equipment (SALUTE) format.
• Reports all operation schedules to higher HQ.
FORWARD OBSERVER
1-23. The FO works for the PL, serving as the eyes and ears of field artillery and mortars. The FO is mainly
responsible for locating targets and calling for and adjusting indirect fire support. The FO knows the terrain
wherein the platoon is operating, tactical situation, mission, concept of operations, and unit’s scheme of
maneuver and priority of fires.
1-24. During planning and while preparing and using situation maps, overlays, and terrain sketches, the FO
selects targets to support the platoon’s mission based on the company OPORD, PL’s guidance, and analysis of
the METT-TC (I) variables. During execution, the TL—
• Informs the fire support team HQ of platoon activities and the fire support situation.
• Selects new targets to support the platoon’s mission based on the company OPORD, the PL’s guidance,
and analysis of the METT-TC (I) variables.
• Calls for and adjusts fire support.
• Operates as a team with the radio operator.
• Selects OPs.
• Maintains communications as prescribed by the fire support officer.
• Maintains the eight-digit coordinate of the current location at all times.

ASSUMPTION OF COMMAND
1-25. Platoon and squad members take command of their elements upon occasion in an emergency, so every
Ranger prepares to do so. During an assumption of command and when the situation permits, the Ranger
assuming command accomplishes the tasks in table 1-2, though not necessarily in that order and based on the
METT-TC (I) variables.

1-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Leadership
Table 1-2. Tasks for the assumption of command

INFORMS

The unit’s subordinate leaders of the command and notifies higher
headquarters.

CHECKS

Security.

CHECKS

Crew-served weapons.

PINPOINTS

Location.

COORDINATES
AND CHECKS

Equipment.

CHECKS

Personnel status.

ISSUES

Requisite fragmentary orders.

REORGANIZES

On a needs basis, maintaining unit integrity when possible.

MAINTAINS

Noise and light disciplines.

CONTINUES

Patrol base activities, especially security, when assuming command in a patrol
base.

RECONNOITERS

At the least, for map reconnaissance.

FINALIZES

Plan.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

1-9

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 2
Operations
This chapter provides techniques and procedures that Infantry platoons and squads use
throughout the planning and execution phases of tactical operations. Specifically, it
discusses the necessary troop leading procedures (TLP), combat information, combat
orders, and planning techniques and tools to prepare a platoon for combat operations.
These topics are time sensitive and apply to all combat operations. When time permits,
leaders plan and prepare in depth. When less time is available, leaders rely on previously
rehearsed actions, battle drills, and SOPs.

TROOP LEADING PROCEDURES
2-1. A leader completes specific steps in the TLP (see table 2-1) to prepare the unit to accomplish a tactical
mission.
Table 2-1. Steps in the troop leading procedures
1. Receive the mission.
2. Issue a warning order.
3. Make a tentative plan.
4. Initiate movement.

5. Conduct reconnaissance.
6. Complete the plan.
7. Issue the operation order.
8. Supervise and refine.

2-2. The TLP start when the leader is alerted for a mission or receives a new mission or a change to an existing
mission. Steps 3 through 8 are done in any order or at the same time.
STEP 1–RECEIVE THE MISSION
2-3. The leader receives the mission in an OPORD or a FRAGORD. The 1/3::2/3 rule only applies to the
planning and preparation of an operation. Parallel planning occurs as the leader uses one-third of the available
planning and preparation time while subordinates use the other two-thirds. Emphasis remains on conducting a
hasty analysis with the primary focus on planning and preparation.
STEP 2–ISSUE A WARNING ORDER
2-4. The leader provides initial instructions in a WARNORD that contains enough information to begin
preparations as soon as possible. The WARNORD mirrors the five-paragraph OPORD format. A WARNORD
includes this essential information:
• Type of operation.
• General location of the operation.
• Initial operational timeline with emphasis on critical times.
• Reconnaissance to initiate.
• Movement to initiate.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-1

Chapter 2
•
•
•

Planning and preparation instructions including a planning timeline.
Information requirements.
Commander’s critical information requirement(s).

STEP 3–MAKE A TENTATIVE PLAN
2-5. During the planning process, leaders analyze the mission variables of METT-TC (I).
a. Conduct a detailed mission analysis.
(1) Mission, intent, and concept of higher commanders’ concepts and intents two levels up. Find this
information in the OPORD, paragraph 1b for two levels up and paras 2 and 3 for one higher up.
(2) Unit tasks. These tasks are either clearly stated in the order (specified tasks) or become apparent
during analysis of the OPORD (implied tasks). (See table 2-2.)
Table 2-2. Examples of specified and implied tasks

SPECIFIED TASKS

IMPLIED TASKS

Retain Hill 545.
Provide one squad to the 81-millimeter
platoon to carry ammunition.
Establish an observation post, vicinity
GA124325 not later than 301500 November 16.

Provide security during movement.
Conduct resupply operations.
Coordinate with adjacent units.

(3) Unit constraints. The leader identifies any constraints placed on the unit. Constraints either prohibit
or require an action. Leaders identify all constraints an OPORD places on their units’ ability to
execute their missions. The two types of constraints are prescriptive (that is, required, mandating
action) and prohibitive (that is, forbidden, limiting action).
(4) Mission-essential task(s). After reviewing all the factors covered in previous paragraphs, the leader
identifies the mission-essential task(s). Failure to accomplish such a task equals failure to
accomplish the mission. The mission-essential task appears in the maneuver paragraph.
(5) Restated mission. This clearly and concisely states the mission (the purpose to be achieved) and
the requisite mission-essential task(s) for achieving it. It identifies who, what (offensive or
defensive task and either action by friendly forces or effect on enemy forces), when (the critical
time), where (usually grid coordinate), and why (the purpose the unit is to achieve nested both
vertically and horizontally). (See table 2-3.)
Table 2-3. Examples of restated missions
(Who?) 1st Platoon attacks. (What?) To seize. (Where?) Hill 482, vicinity NB457371, Objective Blue.
(When?) NLT 090500Z December 16. (Why?) IOT enable the company’s main effort to destroy
enemy command bunker.
(Who?) 1st Platoon, C Company defends. (What?) To destroy from. (Where?) AB163456 to
AB163486 to AB123486 to AB123456. (When?) NLT 181530Z October 16. (Why?) IOT prevent
enemy forces from enveloping B Company, 3-187th Infantry from the south.
Legend: IOT–in order to; NLT–not later than
2-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
b. Analyze the situation and develop a course of action (COA).
(1) Feasible. A COA allows mission accomplishment within the given time, space, and resource
limitations.
(2) Acceptable. The military advantage gained by executing the COA justifies the cost in resources,
especially casualties. This assessment is largely subjective.
(3) Suitable. A COA is executable within the commander’s intent and planning guidance.
(4) Distinguishable. A COA differs significantly enough from other possible COAs.
(5) Complete. A COA incorporates how the decisive operation leads to mission accomplishment, how
shaping operations create and preserve conditions for success of the decisive operation, and how
sustaining operations enable shaping and decisive operations.
c. With the restated mission from Step 1 to provide focus, the leader continues the estimation process
using the remaining METT-TC (I) variables:
(1) Enemy. What is known about the enemy? (See table 2-4.)
Table 2-4. Knowledge of enemy

COMPOSITION

An analysis of the forces and weapons the enemy brings to bear including
what weapon systems they have available and what additional weapons
and units are supporting them.

DISPOSITION

How the enemy is arrayed on the terrain (such as in defensive positions)
or in an assembly area, or how they are moving in march formation.

STRENGTH

The percentage of the strength and number of the passengers.

RECENT ACTIVITIES

Identification of recent and significant enemy activities that indicate future
intentions.

REINFORCEMENT
CAPABILITIES

Determination of positions for reserves and an estimated time to
counterattack or reinforce.

POSSIBLE COURSES
OF ACTION

Determination of the enemy’s most likely and dangerous courses of
action, the analysis of which decreases the likelihood of surprise to the
friendly unit during execution.

(2) Terrain and weather. How will terrain and weather affect the operation? Analyze terrain using
observation and fields of fire, avenues of approach (AAs), key terrain, obstacles, and cover and
concealment. (See table 2-5.)
Table 2-5. Offensive considerations

FRIENDLY

ENEMY

How can these avenues support my movement?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of
each? (Consider enemy, speed, cover, and
concealment.)
What are the likely enemy counterattack routes?

How can the enemy use these approaches?
Which avenue is most dangerous? Least?
(Prioritize each approach.)
Which avenues support a counterattack?

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-3

Chapter 2
(a) Observation and fields of fire. Determine locations that provide the best observation and fields
of fire along the approaches, near the objective, or on key terrain. The main concern of the
analysis of fields of fire is with the ability to cover the terrain with direct fire.
(b) AAs. Develop these next and identify those one level down. Also consider aerial and
subterranean avenues. Use table 2-5 for offensive considerations to AAs.
(c) Key terrain. This is any location or area whose seizure, retention, or control affords a marked
advantage to either combatant. Using the map and information already gathered, look for key
terrain that dominates AAs or the objective area. Next, look for decisive terrain that has an
extraordinary impact on the mission when held or controlled.
(d) Obstacles. Identify existing and reinforcing obstacles and hindering terrain that affect mobility.
(e) Cover and concealment. This analysis is often inseparable from that for the fields of fire and
observation. Weapon positions are ideally both effective and survivable. Infantry units improve
poor cover and concealment by digging in and camouflaging their positions. When moving,
units use the terrain to provide cover and concealment.
(3) Troops and support available. Analyze troop availability for accomplishing the mission. Each
subordinate maneuver element needs to understand their part of the mission, and leaders require
awareness of any elements they have attached or detached for mission duration. Once leaders
understand the mission, they then understand the equipment and personal protective equipment
necessary for accomplishing the mission. When conducting mission analysis, leaders consider
Soldier load management since excessive loads affect physical readiness and combat performance,
and they can potentialize individual and small-unit mission failure. The acronym GEAR serves as
a memory aid to leaders in managing Soldier load (see figure 2-1 and table 2-6).

Figure 2-1. Gauge–evaluate–analyze–reduce framework
2-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-6. Explanation of gauge–evaluate–analyze–reduce framework

Gauge mission requirements
Assess specific mission objectives for the individual or unit.
Analyze environmental factors influencing equipment needs for the individual or unit.
Analyze potential threats and challenges for the individual or unit.

Evaluate equipment options
Identify critical or essential equipment for mission success.
Prioritize items based on mission critical tasks.
Remember ounces mean pounds, and pounds impact performance.
Ask, What type of threat will the individual or unit face? and
What level of protection will the individual or unit need?

Analyze future needs
Identify the most efficient, most effective way, depending on the mission variables, to carry the
requisite load for mission success.
Assess and coordinate off-loading platforms for equipment transportation and for individual and unit
deployments.
Coordinate for equipment and supply drops and caches as necessary and possible.

Reduce risk to the mission, individual, and unit
Analyze the risk to the mission introduced by Soldier load mismanagement in these two ways.
1) If Soldiers will be potentially carrying too much, identify whether extraneous equipment might—
• Exceed a given Soldier’s physical capacity.
• Slow mission progress.
• Lead to a failure to complete the mission within the given time constraints.
2) If Soldiers will be potentially carrying too little, identify whether exempted equipment might—
• Introduce risk to the mission.
• Negatively impact chances of mission success.
• Negatively influence engagements with unexpected enemy threats.
(4) Time available. Leaders conduct deliberate time analysis and then disseminate a timeline to
subordinates to ensure the mission is completed in accordance with the commander’s timeline.
Leaders conduct reverse planning from the not later than (NLT) time for mission completion in the
higher’s order to the time at which they will deliver the order. Doing so ensures their proper
application of the 1/3::2/3 rule and affords subordinates enough time to prepare for the mission and
to conduct rehearsals.
(5) Civil considerations. Analyze these. At the platoon level and below, they come largely from
battalion-level analysis and the company commander’s desired end state as regards the civilian
populace and infrastructure. Are civilians present in the area of operations (AO)? Must civilian
infrastructure be preserved? Is the support of the local populace critical for accomplishing
follow-on operations? Leaders pay special attention to restrictions on indirect fire munitions.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-5

Chapter 2
STEPS 4–6—INITIATE MOVEMENT; CONDUCT RECONNAISSANCE; AND COMPLETE THE PLAN
2-6. The unit sometimes begins movement while the leader is still planning or forward reconnoitering. This
step occurs anytime during the TLP.
2-7. When time allows, the leader may conduct personal reconnaissance. When time does not allow, the leader
performs map reconnaissance. Sometimes, the leader relies on others such as scouts to conduct reconnaissance.
The leader completes the plan based on reconnaissance and any changes in the situation.
STEP 7–ISSUE THE OPERATION ORDER
2-8. PLs and SLs normally issue oral OPORDs to aid subordinates in understanding the concept for the mission.
Whenever possible, leaders issue the order with one or more of the following aids: within sight of the objective,
on the defensive terrain, or on a terrain model or sketch.
2-9. Leaders may require subordinates to repeat all or part of the order or to demonstrate on the model or sketch
their understanding of the operation. They also quiz their Rangers to ensure all Rangers understand the mission.
STEP 8–SUPERVISE AND REFINE
2-10. The leader supervises the unit’s preparation for combat by conducting rehearsals and inspections.
Rehearsals include the practice of having SLs brief their planned actions in execution sequence to the PL.
2-11. The leader conducts rehearsals on terrain resembling the actual ground and in similar light conditions.
Leaders use rehearsals to—
• Have Rangers practice essential tasks, thereby improving performance.
• Reveal weaknesses or problems in the plan.
• Coordinate the actions of subordinate elements.
• Improve Rangers’ understanding of the concept of operations, thereby fostering confidence.
2-12. The platoon sometimes begins rehearsals of battle drills and other SOP items before the receipt of the
OPORD. After the issuance of the order, the platoon rehearses mission-specific tasks. Some important tasks to
rehearse include the following:
• Actions on the objective.
• Actions at the assault position.
• Breaching obstacles such as mines and wire.
• Using special weapons or demolitions.
• Actions on unexpected enemy contact.
2-13. Different rehearsal types exist: confirmation brief, reduced force, full force, and techniques. During a
confirmation brief rehearsal, key leaders sequentially brief the requisite actions for an operation. Patrol leader
rehearsals are conducted twice—right after a FRAGORD (confirmation brief) and again after subordinates
develop their own plans. A reduced force rehearsal is conducted when time is a key constraint and maintaining
security is essential. Key leaders normally attend. Mockups, sand tables, and small-scale replicas are useful. A
full force rehearsal is the most effective type. It is first executed in daylight and open terrain and then conducted
in the same conditions as the operation. All Rangers participate and use force-on-force as appropriate.

2-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
2-14. The techniques rehearsal includes force-on-force, map (which has limited value and a limited number of
attendees), radio (which cannot mass leaders but confirms communications), sand table or terrain model (which
involves key leaders and includes all control measures), and the rehearsal of concept drill (which is similar to
the sand table or terrain model except subordinates move themselves).
2-15. SLs conduct initial inspections shortly after receiving WARNORDs. The PSG spot-checks throughout the
unit’s combat preparation. The PL and PSG perform a final inspection. Precombat checks and inspections cover:
• Weapons and ammunition.
• Uniforms and equipment.
• Mission-essential equipment.
• Soldiers’ understanding of the mission and individual responsibilities.
• Communications.
• Rations and water.
• Camouflage.
• Deficiencies noted during earlier inspections.

COMBAT INFORMATION
2-16. Gathering information is one of the most important aspects of conducting a patrolling operation. Report
all information quickly, completely, and accurately. Use the SALUTE report format for recording and reporting
information. (See table 2-7.)
Table 2-7. Example of a patrol report format

SIZE

Seven enemy personnel.

ACTIVITY

Traveling southwest.

LOCATION

GA123456.

UNIT / UNIFORM

Olive-drab uniforms with red six-point star on left shoulder.

TIME

210200 January 16.

EQUIPMENT

Carry one machine gun and one rocket launcher.

2-17. Try to include a field sketch with each report. Include only aspects of military importance such as targets,
objectives, obstacles, sector limits, or troop dispositions and locations. Use symbols from FM 1-02.2. Use notes
to explain the drawing without cluttering the sketch. Leave out information regarding personnel, weapons, and
equipment; coverage of these items goes in the SALUTE report and not in this one.
2-18. The leader collects captured documents, submits them with the reports, and marks each document with the
time and place of capture. When any prisoner captures occur during a patrolling operation, the treatment of those
prisoners conforms to the Geneva Conventions and follows the 5-S rule. Immediately after returning from a
mission, the unit undergoes debriefing. The 5 Ss of the 5-S rule are known to stand for search, silence, segregate,
safeguard, and speed to rear.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-7

Chapter 2
2-19. A WARNORD gives subordinates advance notice of an upcoming operation, which, in turn, gives them
time to prepare. A WARNORD is brief but complete. (See table 2-8 on pages 2-8 through 2-10 for a sample
formatting of a WARNORD for a platoon. See table 2-9 on pages 2-10 through 2-15 for a sample formatting of
a WARNORD for a squad.)
Note. A WARNORD authorizes execution only when it clearly says so.
Table 2-8. Example of a warning order format—platoon
WARNING ORDER (PLATOON)
Introduction and roll call; note-taking materials; RHB; map; protractor; a call to hold all questions until
the end; leader(s) to monitor subordinates.
References: Refer to the higher HQ OPORD and identify map sheet for operation.
Time zone used throughout the order: Find this in the higher HQ OPORD.
Task organization: Brief on each squad’s assigned role for the mission.
1. SITUATION. Find this in higher HQ OPORD para 1a (1–3). Include the following information.
a. Area of interest: Outline the area of interest on the map.
(1) Orient relative to each point on the compass (north, south, east, and west).
(2) Box in the entire area with grid lines (see higher HQ OPORD para 1b).
b. Area of operations: Outline the AO, using a map or terrain model. Point out the objective
location and the current location of your unit.
(1) Trace your zone boundaries; use features on the map that are generally linear in nature.
(2) Familiarize your unit with their zone by identifying natural and artificial features. Brief on the
significant deductions (conclusions) about each terrain feature from mission analysis.
(3) Brief on high and low temperatures for the weather and the most significant weather factor.
c. Enemy forces: Brief on who, what, and where (1 level up)—enemy forces (who), recent activities
(what), and known and suspected locations with grid coordinates (where). Plot locations and then
brief off the map board or map (see higher HQ OPORD para 1c [2]).
d. Friendly forces: Brief on the commander’s mission and intent and on adjacent units (1 level up).
(1) State commander’s mission (who, what, when, where, why) (see higher HQ OPORD para 2d).
(2) State commander’s intent with task and purpose (see higher HQ OPORD para 3a).
(3) Point out friendly locations on the map board or map. State grid coordinates, task, and
purpose.
e. Attachments and detachments. (May include with task organization briefing.)
2. MISSION. Provide the mission statement twice (who, what, when, where, why). For example,
1st Platoon, B Company decisive operation attacks (OFFENSIVE TASK) to destroy
(EFFECTS ON ENY) enemy personnel and equipment on OBJ Red (GA152793) NLT 302300
January 17 in order to prevent the enemy from maintaining control of OBJ Red (PURPOSE).

2-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-8. Example of a warning order format—platoon (continued)
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information at a minimum.
a. Concept of operations: Describe the execution of your unit’s mission in general terms
from start to finish. Cover all major movements. Follow the KDDTMK format—key action,
distance, direction, time of movement, method of movement, key location (grid coordinates for
checkpoints with key terrain).
b. Tasks to subordinate units: Provide specific tasks to subordinate units to aid in the planning,
preparation, and execution of the mission. Planning guidance—
(1) Includes tasks assigned to subordinates and subordinate leaders.
(2) Is issued with T/C/S and a TH.
(3) Allows subordinates to execute the task with minimal ongoing supervision.
c. Coordinating instructions: Include any known information currently available. Cover the
uniform and equipment common to all. Consider the mission variables when tailoring the
Soldier load to meet mission-specific requirements in accordance with the GEAR framework.
Regarding the timeline, state who, what, when, and where and any relevant notes. (All specific
times must be listed.) Give specific priorities in order of completion, information about
coordination meetings, rehearsals, and inspections by priority, and the NLT time to start
movement.
4. SUSTAINMENT. Include known logistics preparations for the operation.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Maintenance: Include weapons and equipment DX time and location.
(2) Transportation: State method and mode of transportation for INFIL and EXFIL. Identify the
necessary coordination for external assets. Task subordinate leaders as necessary with
generating load plan, number of lifts or serials, and bump plan.
(3) Supply: Only include classes of supply that require coordination or special instructions.
Break down the information by supply class (relevance to mission), on-hand quantity,
requested quantity, and distribution method. For resupply, include time and location.
b. Army Health System support: Identify the medical equipment, medical support, and preventive
medicine that require coordination.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: State the succession of command (top four) if it is not covered in the unit’s SOP.
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of CPs, including the location and the opening and closing
times of each CP as appropriate. (Typically, at the platoon level, the only reference to CPs
is to the company CP.)
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the unit’s SOP (OPSKED).
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support, including current SOI, or refer to higher HQ
OPORD para 5.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-9

Chapter 2
Table 2-8. Example of a warning order format—platoon (continued)
Additional Guidance.
1. State next specified time and required key actions.
2. Ask for questions.
3. Conduct backbriefs as time permits.
4. Give time, place, and uniform of the OPORD.
5. Give TH (time synchronization).
Legend: AO–area of operations; CP–command post; DX–direct exchange; ENY−enemy;
EXFIL−exfiltration; GEAR–gauge, evaluate, analyze, reduce; HQ–headquarters; INFIL−infiltration;
NLT−not later than; OBJ–objective; OPORD–operation order; para–paragraph; OPSKED−operation
schedule; RHB–Ranger Handbook; SOI–signal operating instructions; SOP–standard operating
procedure; T/C/S–tasks, conditions, standards; TH–time hack
Table 2-9. Example of a warning order format—squad
WARNING ORDER (SQUAD)
Introduction and roll call; CDS; note-taking materials; RHB; 1:50,000 map; protractor; call to hold all
questions until the end; TLs to monitor task organization. ATM–SEC / BTM–ASSLT / HQ SUPPORT.
1. SITUATION. Brief.
a. Area of interest: Orient the map (north, south, east, and west). For example, our SQD’s area of
interest is boxed in by the 86 grid line to the north, the 18 grid line to the east, the 77 grid
line to the south, and the 13 grid line to the west.
b. Area of operations: For example, we will be operating in Zone C. (Trace Zone C with
boundaries. Contextualize Zone C with three natural and artificial features.) Our OBJ is located
here (Indicate on map.) at GA152796, and our current location is here (Indicate on map.) at
GA196790.
c. Enemy: Use the 3 Ws and para 1c (1–3). Describe the enemy’s recent locations and activities.
(1) WHO? The Aragon Liberation Front.
(2) WHAT? Ambushed patrol.
(3) WHERE? GA156804.
d. Friendly: Use the 4 Ws, para 2 (Mission), intent, and concept one and two levels up. Task and
purpose of adjacent patrols. Provide the big picture concept of higher HQ’s mission and intent.
(1) Mission.
(a) WHO? 1st PLT, B CO.
(b) WHAT? (Task) Conduct area ambushes to destroy enemy forces.
(c) WHERE? On OBJ Black NLT 302300 January 17.
(d) WHY? (Purpose) To prevent the enemy from maintaining control of OBJ Black.
(2) Intent.
(a) Find, fix, and finish enemy forces in Zone C.
(b) Destroy enemy personnel and equipment.
e. Attachments and detachments: MG TM 300530 January 17.

2-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-9. Example of a warning order format—squad (continued)
2. MISSION. Use clear and concise language, the 5 Ws, para 3, X2, and task and purpose. For
example, 1st SQD, 1st PLT, B CO decisive operation attacks (OFFENSIVE TASK) to destroy
(EFFECTS ON ENY) enemy personnel and equipment on OBJ Red (GA152793) NLT 302300
January 17 in order to prevent the enemy from maintaining control of OBJ Red (PURPOSE).
3. EXECUTION.
a. Concept of operations: (Orient Rangers to sketch or terrain model.) We are currently located at
Camp Darby, GA19627902. We will depart Camp Darby, moving generally northwest for
6,000 meters. We will travel by truck to our insertion point, GA176812, where we will dismount
the trucks. The movement should take approximately 20 minutes. Our ground tactical plan will
begin when we move generally southwest for 3,000 meters. The movement should take 3 hours
as we travel by foot to our tentative ORP, GA154795. Here, we will finalize personnel weapons,
and equipment preparations. We will then move generally southwest for 400 meters to our OBJ,
GA152793. The movement by foot should take 30 minutes to an hour. From our OBJ, we will
travel generally northwest for 3,000 meters. The movement by foot to our linkup site, GA152819,
should take 4 hours. Once linked up, we will move generally southeast for 8,000 meters. The
movement should take approximately 30 minutes as we travel by truck back to Camp Derby.
Once back, we will debrief and prepare to conduct follow-on operations.
b. Tasks to subordinate units: Nontactical and tactical instructions, METT-TC (I) planning
guidance, TMs, special TMs, and key individuals (control–movement–objective).
(1) HQ: Second in the OOM, the M240 provides supporting fire into the kill zone during AOO. The
RTO is the recorder en route and during AOO. You write para 5 of the SQD OPORD, ensure
all radios are operational with proper frequencies loaded, and ensure we enter the net on
time.
(2) ATM: First in the OOM, the ATM is responsible for land navigation. The ATM is flank security
for AOO, one- to two-Ranger EPW TM, one- to two-Ranger aid and litter TM,
one- to two-Ranger demo TM, one- to two-Ranger ORP-clearing TM, two two-person Ranger
flank security TMs for AOO, one- to two-Ranger linkup security TM, one SQD automatic
weapon gunner ASSLT element for AOO, one compass person, and one pace person. The
ATL is the security TL for AOO. You write para 1 and the linkup annex of the SQD OPORD
and draw all sketches. You are responsible for the formation order of movement, danger
areas, battle drills, linkup, truck, AOO, terrain model, routes, and fire support overlay (sterile
and nonsterile).
(3) BTM: Third in the OOM, the BTM is ASSLT for AOO. One- to two-person EPW TM,
one- to two-Ranger aid and litter TM, one- to two-Ranger demo TM, one- to two-Ranger
surveillance and observation TM, one grenadier per security TM for AOO, one compass
person, and one pace person. The BTL is the ASSLT TL for AOO. You are second in the
COC and in charge at all times during my absence. You write para 4 and the truck annex of
the SQD OPORD, prepare the supply, DX, and ammunition lists, and draw and issue all
items. Ensure everyone does a T/F and that all equipment is tied down in accordance with the
4th Ranger Training Battalion’s SOP. Update the SQD status card and hand receipt.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-11

Chapter 2
Table 2-9. Example of a warning order format—squad (continued)
3. EXECUTION (continued).
(4) TL: The TL updates the WARNORD board with all the correct information. As a task is
accomplished, you draw a line through it. You post your COC, duty position, and job
description (special TMs and key individuals). You come see me for further guidance at the
conclusion of this WARNORD.
c. Coordinating instructions: Depending on METT-TC (I), tailor the load appropriately to the
number of Rangers and not in accordance with the SOPs.
(1) The packing list is based on the Airborne and Ranger Training Brigade’s seasonal packing list.
(2) Write on note cards or paper and read off by item.

Time schedule

WHEN

WHAT

WHERE

WHO

REFERENCE

*0630

WARNORD

Bay area

All

0700

Initial inspection

Bay area

All

*0730

Required ammo, supply

Co TOC

BTL

4B1

*0745

Pick up ammo, supply

Co TOC

BTL/Detail

4B1

0800

T/F

T/F area

All

*0830

S–2, S–3, fires coordination

PLT bay

SL/RTO

3D1

0850

Adjacent unit coordination

SQD bays

ATL, Compass

3D1

*0900

Enter net

Bay area

RTO

0930

Status card update

Bay area

SL/TL

0945

Terrain model complete

Bay area

SL/TL

*1000

OPORD

Bay area

All

2-12

TC 3-21.76

3D1

RTO

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-9. Example of a warning order format—squad (continued)
Time schedule (continued)
WHEN

WHAT

WHERE

WHO

1300

Rehearsal

Bay area

All

1330

Final inspection

Bay area

All

*1400

Truck linkup

Co TOC

All

1500

Depart Camp Darby

Co TOC

All

*1600

Insertion complete

TBD

All

1800

In ORP

TBD

All

*2000

In position

GA184774

All

*2300

Mission complete

TBD

All

*0200

Linkup complete

TBD

All

0500
S–2 debriefing
Battalion TOC
* Critical times. Use the 1/3::2/3 rule and reverse planning.

REFERENCE

3D1
3D1

All

4. SUSTAINMENT. Include the following information.
a. Logistics.
(1) Maintenance: Weapons and equipment DX is at 0700 in the company CP.
(2) Transportation: Trucking will be the mode of transportation for insertion and extraction.
The BTL generates the load plan, bump plan, and number of chalks and lifts.
(3) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water: Each person has two MREs and 6 quarts of water for
the operation.
(b) Class V—ammunition: The BTL draws enough ammunition for each person to carry a
basic load in accordance with the SQD’s SOP.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-13

Chapter 2
Table 2-9. Example of a warning order format—squad (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT (continued).
Example of a squad ammunition standard operating procedure

INDIVIDUAL WEAPONS
(FOR EACH WEAPON SYSTEM)

SUPPLEMENTAL AMMUNITION
(TOTAL)

WPN

QTY

M4

210

5.56-mm ball

REMARKS

Claymore

M249

625

5.56-mm ball,
link (4:1 mix)

M240B

825

7.62-mm ball,
link (4:1 mix)

M320

12

40-mm HEDP

M320

3

40-mm shot

M320

4

40-mm illumination

M320

2

40-mm TP rounds

TYPE

QTY

REMARKS

3

M18A1

Demo kit

2

C4, M81, M14

M67 hand
grenade

24

Two per
Soldier

5.56-mm tracer

126

42 per leader

AT4 (antitank)

2

One per TM

HC smoke

6

Red smoke

2

Yellow smoke

4

b. Personnel services support: Religious services will be held at 0800 in the chapel.
c. Army Health System support: The ATL coordinates for one additional combat lifesaver bag.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL. Include the following information.
a. Command.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: The patrol leader will be located in the SQD bay
during phase one (mission preparation). The OPORD briefs the location of the patrol leader
for all other phases.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
This is the SL, BTL, ATL, and RTO.
b. Control.
(1) CPs: The PLT CP is located at GA166807, and the company CP is located at GA196790.
(2) Reports: The OPORD covers pertinent reports.
c. Signal.
(1) The battalion will be operating on 37.950 SC/PT, call sign Darby 741.
(2) Our SQD frequency is 77.000 SC/PT, call sign bravo-one-one.
(3) The OPORD briefing gives all other signals such as frequencies, call signs, challenges, and
passwords.

2-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-9. Example of a warning order format—squad (continued)
Additional Guidance.
1. Give subordinates additional guidance on tasks to complete for preparation of the OPORD and
mission.
2. Give the time, place, and uniform of the OPORD.
3. Give a time hack and ask for questions.
4. Time permitting, complete a subordinate confirmation brief on the distributed information to ensure
understanding.
Legend: 3 Ws–who, what, where; 4 Ws–who, what, where, why; 5 Ws–who, what, where, when, why;
ammo−ammunition; AOO–actions on objective; ASSLT–assault; ATL–Alpha team leader; ATM−Alpha
team; BTL–Bravo team leader; BTM–Bravo team; CDS–Camp Darby special; CO−company;
COC−chain of command; CP–command post; demo–demolition; DX–direct exchange; ENY−enemy;
EPW−enemy prisoner of war; HC–high concentration; HEDP–high explosive dual purpose;
HQ−headquarters; METT-TC (I)–mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available,
time available, civil considerations, and informational considerations; MG–machine gun; mm−millimeter;
MRE−meal, ready to eat; NLT–not later than; OBJ–objective; OOM–order of march; OPORD−operation
order; ORP–objective rally point; para–paragraph; PLT–platoon; QTY–quantity; RHB−Ranger
Handbook; RTO–radio-telephone operator; S–2–battalion or brigade intelligence staff officer;
S−3−battalion or brigade operations staff officer; SC/PT–single channel/plain text; SEC−security;
SL−squad leader; SOP–standard operating procedure; SQD–squad; TBD–to be determined; T/F−test
fire; TL−team leader; TM–team; TOC–tactical operations center; TP–training practice;
WARNORD−warning order; WPN–weapon; X2–times two

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-15

Chapter 2

OPERATION ORDER
2-20. An OPORD is a directive issued by a leader to subordinates in order to effect the coordinated execution
of a specific operation. A five-paragraph format (see table 2-10 on pages 2-16 through 2-23) organizes the
briefing, ensures completeness, and helps subordinate leaders understand and follow the order. Use a terrain
model or sketch, along with a map, to explain the order.
2-21. The PL or SL orally briefs the OPORD off notes. Before the issuance of the OPORD, the leader ensures
note-taking materials, copy of Ranger Handbook, map, and protractor are all in place. The leader monitors
subordinates, calls roll, and says PLEASE HOLD ALL QUESTIONS UNTIL THE END. Table 2-10 is a sample
formatting of an OPORD for a platoon.
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon
OPERATION ORDER. Plans and orders normally contain a code name and are numbered
consecutively within a calendar year.
References: The heading of the plan or order lists maps, charts, data, or other documents the unit
needs to understand the plan or order. The user may reference the SOP in the body of the plan or
order. Map references are by map series number and sheet number (and, if required, by country or
geographic area, name, edition, and scale). The term datum refers to the orientation of a map’s lines
of latitude and longitude relative to the earth. Different nations use different datums for printing
coordinates on their maps. Knowing the datum in use helps when determining coordinates; look first in
a map’s marginal information, which usually references the datum. Include the following information.
Time zone used throughout the order: For an operation occurring in one time zone, use that time
zone throughout the order, including in the annexes and appendixes. For an operation spanning
several time zones, use Zulu time.
Task organization: Describe the allocation of forces to support the commander’s concept. Show task
organization in one of two places: just above paragraph 1 or, for a long or complex task organization,
in an annex. Provide a task and purpose for each subordinate maneuver element and designate a
decisive operation. The decisive operation’s purpose nests within the platoon’s purpose.
1. SITUATION. Include the following information.
a. Area of interest: Describe areas of interest outside the AO that influence your operation.
(1) Orient the audience to the map or visual aid. Show north, south, east, and west.
(2) Box in the area of interest with grid lines. Horizontal grid lines indicate northing, and vertical
grid lines indicate easting.
(3) Brief on enemy external assets in the area of interest. Follow the CARRO format—
(a) Close air support: Enemy fixed- or rotary-wing assets (available for use by the enemy).
(b) Artillery/mortars: Enemy indirect fire assets that can reach friendly forces at any point
during the operation. Pay close attention to munitions and maximum effective ranges.
(c) Reinforcements: Enemy quick reaction forces who can support enemy forces within the
AO. How quickly can the enemy be reinforced in the AO?
(d) Reserves: Normally controlled at a higher echelon. What forces does the enemy have in
reserve?
(e) Other: What other assets does the enemy have that can affect friendly forces?
2-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
1. SITUATION (continued).
b. Area of operations: Describe the AO. Refer to the appropriate map and use overlays as
necessary. Trace the platoon’s AO, basing the boundaries on visually recognizable natural and
artificial features on the map. Familiarize the audience with the AO by identifying three artificial
and three natural features. Since the subsequent paragraph provides a full terrain analysis, no
deductions (conclusions) about the terrain features need be included here (as a warning order
briefing would include).
(1) Terrain: Use the OAKOC from the higher HQ OPORD. Refine it based on your analysis of the
terrain in the AO. Using the OAKOC format, state how the terrain will affect friendly and
enemy forces in the AO. Provide deductions (conclusions) about each OAKOC military aspect
of terrain.
(2) Weather: Describe the aspects of weather that impact operations. Allow the military aspects
of weather to drive your analysis—visibility, wind, precipitation, cloud cover, temperature,
humidity, and atmospheric pressure. State how the weather will affect both friendly and
enemy forces in the AO. Provide deductions (conclusions) about each weather condition.
c. Enemy forces: The enemy situation in higher HQ OPORD para 1c forms the basis for this.
Refine it by adding the details your subordinates require.
(1) Brief on and depict enemy forces two and one level(s) up, as stated in the company order.
(2) Regarding the enemy forces templated in your AO—
(a) State the enemy’s composition and strength.
(b) Brief on and depict the enemy’s disposition along the avenues of approach in your AO.
(c) Brief on and depict the enemy’s recent activities.
(d) Describe enemy capabilities, focusing on direct, indirect, and reinforcement capabilities.
(e) Describe the enemy’s MPCOA and MDCOA. Focus the MPCOA and MDCOA on the AOO.
Brief off the micro-terrain model.
d. Friendly forces: Find this in higher HQ OPORD paras 1d, 2, and 3.
(1) Higher HQ mission, intent, and concept.
(a) Higher HQ two levels up.
_1_ Mission: State the mission of the higher unit two levels up.
_2_ Intent: State the intent two levels up.
(b) Higher HQ one level up.
_1_ Mission: State the mission of the higher unit one level up.
_2_ Intent: State the intent one level up.
(2) Mission of adjacent units: State the locations of units to the left, right, front, and rear; those
units’ tasks and purposes; and how those units will influence yours, particularly adjacent
unit patrols. Conduct this analysis for friendly forces one and two level(s) up.
(a) Show other units’ locations on the map board.
(b) Include statements about what, if any, influence each patrol will have on your mission.
(c) Find this information in company order paras 1d and 3. It gives each leader an idea of
what other units are doing and where they are going.
(d) Include any information obtained when the leader conducts adjacent unit coordination.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-17

Chapter 2
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
1. SITUATION (continued).
e. Attachments and detachments: Avoid repeating information already listed in task organization,
but list those units attached or detached to the HQ issuing the order when not listed in task
organization. State when attachment or detachment will be in effect if different from when the
OPORD is in effect, such as on order or on commitment of the reserve. Use the phrase
remains attached when units will be or have been attached for some time.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, why (purpose) from higher HQ OPORD Maneuver para.
3. EXECUTION.
a. Commander’s intent: State the intent, which is the clear, concise statement of what the force
must do and of the conditions the force must establish (with respect to the friendly, enemy,
terrain, and civil considerations) to achieve the commander’s desired end state. This statement
allows subordinate and supporting commanders to execute the mission without further orders,
even when the operation does not unfold as planned. Do not repeating when already briefed off
para 1d.
b. Concept of operations:
(1) Write a clear, concise course of action statement.
(a) State the form of maneuver to be used to accomplish the mission.
(b) State the decisive point of the operation and explain what makes it decisive.
(c) Brief on the task and purpose of subordinate maneuver elements in the operation.
(d) State the purpose of the enablers throughout the operation. Separate the enablers by
warfighting function.
(e) Brief on the commander’s desired end state for the friendly, enemy, terrain and civil
variables.
(2) Brief on the nested concept by phase. Describe how the unit will accomplish its mission from
start to finish. Base the number of subparagraphs, if any, on what the leader considers
appropriate, the level of leadership, and the complexity of the operation. At a minimum, divide
the operation into the following phases: planning and preparation, movement, AOO, and
preparation for follow-on operations. State when each phase will begin and end and what is
critical to success during the phase.
c. Scheme of movement and maneuver: The organization of this brief is sequential, moving from
the start of the operation to its finish and covering all aspects of the operation. Describe the
operation from when the platoon begins movement to when the operation is complete.
(1) Brief off the macro-terrain model on the primary and alternate routes. Follow the KDDTMK
format—key action, distance, direction, time of movement, method of movement, key location
(key terrain at checkpoint). State the movement technique and formation. Provide a grid for
the endpoint of each leg of the movement.
(2) Cover the primary and alternate routes from insertion or start point, through AOO, and to
linkup or arrival at the subsequent patrol base.
(3) Brief on the plan for crossing known dangerous areas. Provide near side and far side rally
points and tentative crossing points.
2-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
3. EXECUTION (continued).
(4) Brief on the plan for reacting to enemy contact. Brief on each contingency to the leg of the
movement that you most anticipate taking contact.
(a) For direct contact, consider the following.
_1_ When contact is made, which element would be most likely to take contact, and based
on your analysis, from which direction is direct fire contact most likely?
_2_ How will you assess the situation? Applying three-to-one superiority, what sizes of
enemy elements and weapon systems by type can be engaged? How does the terrain
affect maneuverability? What are the criteria for employing the key weapon systems?
What is the decision point for conducting a platoon attack or breaking contact?
_3_ Based on your analysis, how will you task-organize the platoon? Which elements will
serve as the base-of-fire, the maneuver, and the security elements?
_4_ What control measures will you implement for the course of action on which you will
brief (for example, signals to cease or shift fire)?
_5_ When anticipating conducting a platoon attack, how will you employ special teams to
exploit the enemy?
(b) For indirect contact, consider the following.
_1_ Upon receiving indirect fire on a leg of the movement, in which direction and to what
distance will the movement travel?
_2_ What is to be the reaction upon receiving bracketing fire?
(c) Brief on any other likely forms of contact during the patrol’s legs of the movement.
(5) Brief on any approved fire targets, CCPs, CXPs, and HLZs as they become applicable
throughout the route.
(6) Brief on the scheme of maneuver chronologically within the scheme of movement. Upon
completing the scheme of maneuver, continue through the scheme of movement until mission
completion. Upon completing the primary route, brief on the alternate route in the KDDTMK
format. The scheme of maneuver includes the following at minimum.
(a) Movement plan: How elements will move to and from the objective.
(b) Reconnaissance plan: How leaders will reconnoiter positions on the objective and who
will accompany them.
(c) Occupation plan: How leaders will move Rangers into positions on the objective.
(d) Engagement/disengagement criteria: A brief based on conditions on the objective such
as time, emplaced personnel, and enemy. Rangers maintain understanding of when and
how they are to engage the enemy on the objective (for example, priority of targets, rates
of fire by weapon system).
(e) Compromise plan: Actions each subordinate element will take upon hard or soft
compromise.
(f) Control measures: Which control measures—signals, target reference points, limit of
advance, land component commander, restrictive fire line—to implement to maximize
effectiveness and mitigate fratricide.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-19

Chapter 2
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
3. EXECUTION (continued).
(g) Initiation plan: How the platoon will initiate AOO. A PACE plan is recommended to ensure
complete redundancy.
(h) AOO plan: How the platoon will conduct the operation upon initiation. How the element will
fire and maneuver. How special teams will be employed to exploit the objective.
(i) Withdrawal plan: How the platoon will withdraw from the objective once AOO are
complete.
(j) Consolidation and reorganization: How the platoon will consolidate and reorganize for
follow-on operations once AOO are complete.
d. Scheme of fires: State the scheme of fires to support the overall concept and state who (which
maneuver unit) has priority of fires by the phase of the operation. Discuss specific fire targets by
the TTLODAC format and point to them on the macro-terrain model (see chapter 3).
e. CASEVAC: Brief on the locations of CCPs, CXPs, and HLZs and indicate them on the
macro-terrain model. State when they will be active during the operation.
f. Tasks to subordinate units: Task Rangers in subordinate squads with special teams—EPW, aid
and litter, vehicle clearance, demolitions, surveillance and observation, objective rally point
security. Brief on what special equipment these personnel need and when they will conduct
rehearsals. Place into the coordinating instructions those tasks that affect two or more units.
g. Coordinating instructions: This is always the last subparagraph under paragraph 3 (Execution).
List only those instructions that apply to two or more units. Use annexes as necessary for
communicating more complex instructions.
(1) Timeline: State the time, place, uniform, and audience for each key event. Cover the timeline
from the briefing of the order through mission completion. Brief on the priority of rehearsals,
confirmation briefs, and inspections.
(2) Commander’s critical information requirements: Include PIRs and FFIRs.
(a) PIRs: The necessary intelligence for the commander and staff to understand the threat
and other aspects of the operational environment.
(b) FFIRs: The necessary information for the commander and staff to understand the status
of friendly force and supporting capabilities. This may include personnel status,
ammunition status, and leadership capabilities.
(3) Essential elements of friendly information: Critical aspects of a friendly operation that
compromise or limit the success of the operation or lead to its failure when the enemy knows
them. Therefore, they are protected from enemy detection.
(4) Risk-reduction control measures: Unique to the operation, these supplement the unit’s
SOP and include mission-oriented protective posture, operational exposure guidance, vehicle
recognition signals, and fratricide prevention measures.
(5) Rules of engagement.
(6) Environmental considerations.
(7) Force protection.

2-20

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT. Describe the concept of sustainment to include logistics, personnel, and medical.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay: Include current and proposed company trains locations, CCPs,
equipment collection points, HLZs, CXPs, EPW exchange points, and any friendly
sustainment locations such as forward operating bases. Include grid locations. Brief on the
locations with the use of a map or terrain model.
(2) Maintenance: Include weapons and equipment, direct exchange time, and location. Include
the weapons maintenance plan for after AOO are complete.
(3) Transportation: State the method and mode of transportation for insertion and extraction,
load plan, number of lifts and serials, bump plan, recovery assets, and recovery plan. When
vehicles will provide a method of transportation, include a plan for security at the insertion and
extraction points.
(4) Supply: Include the current status of the supplies.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
(5) Emergency resupply plan: Brief on an emergency resupply plan for Class I, V, and VII
supplies. Break down each class into materials within that supply class (for example,
separate Class I into food and water). Brief in the following order.
(a) Class of supply and the specific material.
(b) On-hand quantity that would trigger an emergency resupply. The platoon sergeant
maintains awareness of what on-hand quantity of each key resource the platoon must
have to remain combat effective.
(c) Quantity to request for each resource in an emergency resupply.
(d) How each resource should be packaged.
(e) How to mark each arriving package.
(f) The necessity of external assets to provide security for the package, as well as what size
security detail to request when necessary.
(6) Field services: Include any services provided or required.
b. Personnel services support: Include the methods of marking and handling EPWs.
(1) Brief on how to handle EPWs in accordance with search, silence, segregate, safeguard, and
speed to the rear.
(2) Identify EPW teams by name and state any special equipment they are to carry.
(3) Provide a grid for each EPW collection point and indicate them on the macro-terrain model,
but not when doing so would be redundant to the sustainment overlay briefing.
(4) Brief on an EPW backhaul SOP. Using a visual aid, provide a detailed formation and order of
movement for transporting EPWs.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-21

Chapter 2
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT (continued).
c. Army Health System support: Include the following information.
(1) Medical mission command: Include the locations of the medic and the platoon sergeant.
(2) Medical treatment: State how wounded or injured Soldiers will receive treatment (for
example, self-aid, buddy aid, combat lifesaver bag, emergency medical technician).
(3) Medical evacuation: Identify aid and litter teams by name and state any special equipment
they are to carry.
(4) Preventive medicine: Identify any preventive medicine needs for the mission (for example,
sun block, lip balm, insect repellant, in-country-specific medicine).
d. CASEVAC plan: Brief on a detailed CASEVAC plan. Use visual aids for the following.
(1) CCP establishment and marking methods for both good and limited visibility.
(2) CASEVAC formation and order of movement. Brief on where each squad will be while
transporting casualties. The formation is not personalized down to the individual.
(3) CXP establishment and marking methods for both good and limited visibility.
(4) A detailed mass casualty plan on the objective, specifically using a micro-terrain model.
(a) Include a trigger—that is, how many casualties by type constitute a mass casualty. Include
how the platoon will receive an alert to the mass casualty situation.
(b) Discuss the location of your CCP and task-organize the platoon to secure it.
(c) Brief on how your CCP will triage casualties. A CCP diagram is helpful for demonstrating
the planned conduct of patient triage.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL. State the locations of mission command facilities and key leaders for
the operation.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs, including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support, including current SOI edition, or refer to the
higher HQ OPORD.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).

2-22

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-10. Example of an operation order format—platoon (continued)
Actions after the issuance of the OPORD:
1. Issue annexes.
2. Highlight next hard time.
3. Give time hack.
4. Ask for questions.
Legend: AO–area of operations; AOO–actions on objective; CARRO–close air support,
artillery/mortars, reinforcements, reserves, other; CASEVAC−casualty evacuation; CCP−casualty
collection point; CP–command post; CXP–casualty exchange point; EPW−enemy prisoner of war;
FFIR−friendly force information requirement; HLZ–helicopter landing zone; HQ−headquarters;
KDDTMK−key action, distance, direction, time of movement, method of movement, key location;
MDCOA−most dangerous course of action; MPCOA–most probable course of action;
OAKOC−observation and fields of fire, avenues of approach, key terrain, obstacles, and cover and
concealment; OPORD–operation order; OPSKED–operation schedule; PACE–primary, alternate,
contingency, emergency; para–paragraph; PIR–priority intelligence requirement; SOI–signal operating
instructions; SOP–standard operating procedure; TTLODAC–target, trigger, location, observer, delivery
system, attack guidance, communications network

FRAGMENTARY ORDER
2-22. A FRAGORD is an abbreviated form of an OPORD, usually issued daily, which eliminates the need for
restating portions of the OPORD. Its issuance follows an OPORD to change or modify that order or to execute
a branch or sequel to that order. (See table 2-11 on pages 2-23 through 2-26 for a sample formatting of a
FRAGORD with annotations.)
Table 2-11. Example of a fragmentary order format
FRAGMENTARY ORDER
Time zone referenced throughout order:
Task organization:
1. SITUATION. Brief changes from the base OPORD specific to the day’s operation. Include the
following information.
a. Area of interest: State any changes to the area of interest.
b. Area of operations: State any changes to the area of operations. These include terrain—
observation, fields of fire, cover and concealment, obstacles, key terrain, and avenues of
approach. Note any changes that will affect the operation in the new area of operations.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-23

Chapter 2
Table 2-11. Example of a fragmentary order format (continued)
1. SITUATION (continued).
c. Enemy: Include the following information.
(1) Composition, disposition, and
strength.
(2) Capabilities.
(3) Recent activities.
(4) Most likely course of action.
d. Friendly: This includes:
(1) Higher mission.
(2) Adjacent patrols, tasks, and
purposes.
(3) Adjacent patrol’s objective and
route if known.

Temp high

Sunrise

Temp low

Sunset

Moonrise
Moonset

Wind speed

*BMNT

Moon phase

Wind direction

**EENT

Percent illumination

This is the information the squad leader received from
the platoon OPORD.
*Begin morning nautical twilight
**End of evening nautical twilight

2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose) from the higher HQ OPORD
Maneuver para.
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Commander’s intent: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE.
b. Concept of operations: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE.
c. Scheme of movement and maneuver: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE.
d. Scheme of fires: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE.
e. Casualty evacuation: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE.
f. Tasks to subordinate units: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE.
g. Coordinating instructions: Include any changes or state NO CHANGE. Add the following
information.
(1) Time schedule.
(2) Commander’s critical information requirement(s).
(3) Priority intelligence requirement(s).
(4) Friendly force information requirement(s).
(5) Essential elements of friendly information.
(6) Risk reduction control measures.
(7) Rules of engagement.
(8) Environmental considerations.
(9) Force protection.
4. SUSTAINMENT. Cover only the changes from the base order. Use the standard format. Brief items
that have not changed as NO CHANGE.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay.
(2) Maintenance.
(3) Transportation.

2-24

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-11. Example of a fragmentary order format (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT (continued).
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
(5) Field services.
b. Personnel services support: Include the following points.
(1) Methods of marking and handling enemy prisoners of war.
(2) Religious services.
c. Army Health System support: Include the following points.
(1) Medical mission command.
(2) Medical treatment.
(3) Medical evacuation.
(4) Preventive medicine.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL. Brief only the changes to the base order. With changes, state the
locations of mission command facilities and key leaders for the operation.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support including current SOI edition or refer to the higher
HQ OPORD. Include the following information.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-25

Chapter 2
Table 2-11. Example of a fragmentary order format (continued)
Field FRAGORD guidance:
1. The field FRAGORD issuance lasts a target of 30 minutes but not longer than 40 minutes.
The proposed planning guide is as follows.
a. Paras 1 and 2 — 5 minutes.
b. Para 3 — 20 to 30 minutes.
c. Paras 4 and 5 — 5 minutes.
2. The FRAGORD focuses on actions on the objective. The platoon leader may use subordinates to
prepare paras 1, 4, and 5 and routes and fires for the FRAGORD. Subordinates may brief the
portions of the FRAGORD they prepare.
3. The use of sketches and a terrain model is critical to rapid understanding of the operation and
FRAGORD.
4. Rehearsals are critical as elements of the constrained planning model. Effective rehearsals
coinciding with the FRAGORD reduces preparation time, affording the platoon leader more time for
movement and reconnaissance.
5. Planning in a field environment reduces the amount of time leaders have for in-depth mission
planning. The troop leading procedures give leaders a framework to plan missions and produce
orders when time is short.
Legend: BMNT–begin morning nautical twilight; CP–command post; EENT–end of evening nautical
twilight;
FRAGORD−fragmentary
order;
HQ–headquarters;
OPORD–operation
order;
OPSKED−operation schedule; para–paragraph; SOI–signal operating instructions; SOP−standard
operating procedure; Temp–temperature

ANNEXES
2-23. OPORD annexes follow the issuance of an OPORD only when more information about truck movement,
air assault, PBs, small boats, linkups, or stream crossings becomes necessary. Brevity is standard. (See
tables 2-12 through 2-16 on pages 2-26 through 2-35 for sample formats of various types of annexes.)
Table 2-12. Example of an air movement annex format
AIR MOVEMENT ANNEX.
1. SITUATION.
a. Enemy: Include the following information.
(1) Enemy air capability.
(2) Enemy air defense artillery capability.
(3) Weather including the percent illumination, illumination angle, night-vision device window,
ceiling, and visibility.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose).
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Concept of operations.
b. Tasks to subordinate units.
2-26

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-12. Example of an air movement annex format (continued)
c. Coordinating instructions: Include the following information.
(1) PZ.
(a) Name and number.
(b) Coordinates.
(c) Load time.
(d) Takeoff time.
(e) Markings.
(f) Control.
(g) Landing formation.
(h) Approach and departure directions.
(i) Alternate PZ name and number.
(j) Penetration points.
(k) Extraction points.
(2) LZ.
(a) Name and number.
(b) Coordinates.
(c) H-hour.
(d) Markings.
(e) Control.
(f) Landing formation and direction.
(g) Alternate LZ name and number.
(h) Deception plan.
(i) Extraction LZ.
(3) Laager site.
(a) Communications.
(b) Security force.
(c) Flight routes and alternates.
(d) Abort criteria.
(e) Downed aircraft/crew designated area of recovery.
(f) Special instructions.
(g) Cross-FLOT considerations.
(h) Aircraft speed.
(i) Aircraft altitude.
(j) Aircraft crank time.
(k) Rehearsal schedule and plan.
(l) Actions on enemy contact en route and on the ground.
4. SUSTAINMENT.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay: Include forward area refuel and rearm points.
(2) Maintenance: This is specific to aircraft.
(3) Transportation.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-27

Chapter 2
Table 2-12. Example of an air movement annex format (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT (continued).
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control: List reports not covered in the SOPs.
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support including current signal operating instructions
edition or refer to the higher headquarters’ operation order.
(1) Air and ground call signs and frequencies.
(2) Air and ground emergency codes.
(3) Passwords and number combinations.
(4) Fire net and quick-fire net.
(5) Time zone.
(6) Time check.
Legend: FLOT–forward line of own troops; LZ–landing zone; PZ–pickup zone; SOP−standard
operating procedure
Table 2-13. Example of a patrol base annex format
PATROL BASE ANNEX.
1. SITUATION. Include the following information.
a. Enemy forces.
b. Friendly forces.
c. Attachments and detachments.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose).
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Concept of operations.
b. Scheme of movement and maneuver.
c. Scheme of fires.

2-28

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-13. Example of a patrol base annex format (continued)
3. EXECUTION (continued).
d. Tasks to subordinate units. Include the following information.
(1) Teams.
(a) Security.
(b) Reconnaissance.
(c) Surveillance.
(d) Listening and observation posts.
(2) Individuals.
e. Coordinating instructions. Include the following information.
(1) Occupation plan.
(2) Operations plan.
(a) Security plan.
(b) Alert plan.
(c) Priority of work.
(d) Evacuation plan.
(e) Alternate patrol base when primary base is unsuitable or compromised.
4. SUSTAINMENT. Brief only those specifics not covered in the base order.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay: Include water, maintenance, hygiene, rations, and rest plans.
(2) Maintenance.
(3) Transportation.
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
(5) Field services.
b. Personnel services support: Include the following information.
(1) Methods of marking and handling enemy prisoners of war.
(2) Religious services.
c. Army Health System support: Include the following information.
(1) Medical mission command.
(2) Medical treatment.
(3) Medical evacuation.
(4) Preventive medicine.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-29

Chapter 2
Table 2-13. Example of a patrol base annex format (continued)
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support including current SOI edition or refer to the higher
headquarters’ operation order.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).
Legend: CP–command post; OPSKED–operation schedule; SOI–signal operating instructions;
SOP–standard operating procedure
Table 2-14. Example of a waterborne insertion annex format
WATERBORNE INSERTION ANNEX.
1. SITUATION. Include the following information.
a. Area of operations.
(1) Terrain.
(a) River’s width.
(b) River’s depth and water’s temperature.
(c) River’s current.
(d) Vegetation.
(2) Weather.
(a) Tide.
(b) Surf.
(c) Wind.
b. Enemy forces: State any changes or additions to identification, location, activity, and strength.
c. Friendly forces (the unit furnishing support).
d. Attachments and detachments.
e. Organization for movement.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose).
2-30

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-14. Example of a waterborne insertion annex format (continued)
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Concept of operations.
b. Scheme of movement and maneuver.
c. Scheme of fires.
d. Tasks to subordinate units.
(1) Security.
(2) Tie down teams.
(a) Load equipment.
(b) Secure equipment.
(3) Designation of coxswains and boat commanders.
(a) Selection of navigator(s) and observer(s).
e. Coordinating instructions.
(1) Formations and order of movement.
(2) Route and alternate route.
(3) Method of navigation.
(4) Actions on enemy contact.
(5) Rally points.
(6) Embarkation plan.
(7) Debarkation plan.
(8) Rehearsals.
(9) Time schedule.
4. SUSTAINMENT. Brief only those specifics not covered in the base order.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay.
(2) Maintenance.
(3) Transportation: Include the disposition of boats, paddles, and life jackets upon debarkation.
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods: Include the method of distributing paddles and life jackets.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-31

Chapter 2
Table 2-14. Example of a waterborne insertion annex format (continued)
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL (continued).
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support including current SOI edition or refer to the higher
headquarters’ operation order.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).
Legend: CP–command post; OPSKED–operation schedule; SOI–signal operating instructions;
SOP−standard operating procedure
Table 2-15. Example of a covert gap crossing annex format
COVERT GAP CROSSING ANNEX.
1. SITUATION. Include the following information.
a. Area of operations.
(1) Terrain.
(a) River’s width.
(b) River’s depth and water’s temperature.
(c) River’s current.
(d) Vegetation.
(e) Obstacles.
(2) Weather.
b. Enemy forces: Include location, identification, and activity.
c. Friendly forces.
d. Attachments and detachments.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose).
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Concept of operations.
b. Scheme of movement and maneuver.
c. Scheme of fires.

2-32

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-15. Example of a covert gap crossing annex format (continued)
3. EXECUTION (continued).
d. Tasks to subordinate units.
(1) Elements.
(2) Teams.
(3) Individuals.
e. Coordinating instructions.
(1) Crossing procedure and techniques.
(2) Security.
(3) Order of crossing.
(4) Actions on enemy contact.
(5) Alternate plan.
(6) Rallying points.
(7) Rehearsal plan.
(8) Time schedule.
4. SUSTAINMENT: Brief only those specifics not covered in the base order.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay.
(2) Maintenance.
(3) Transportation.
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-33

Chapter 2
Table 2-15. Example of a covert gap crossing annex format (continued)
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL (continued).
c. Signal. Describe the concept of signal support including current SOI edition or refer to the higher
headquarters’ operation order.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).
Legend: CP–command post; OPSKED–operation schedule; SOI–signal operating instructions;
SOP−standard operating procedure
Table 2-16. Example of a truck annex format
TRUCK ANNEX.
1. SITUATION. Include the following information.
a. Enemy situation.
b. Friendly situation.
c. Attachments and detachments.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose).
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Concept of operations.
b. Scheme of movement and maneuver.
c. Scheme of fires.
d. Tasks to subordinate units.
e. Coordinating instructions.
(1) Times of departure and return.
(2) Loading plan and order of movement.
(3) Route (primary and alternate).
(4) Air guards.
(5) Actions on enemy contact (vehicle ambush) during movement, loading, and unloading.
(6) Actions at the de-trucking point.
(7) Rehearsals.
(8) Vehicle speed, separation, and recovery plan.
(9) Broken vehicle instructions.
4. SUSTAINMENT. Brief only those specifics not covered in the base order.
a. Logistics: Include the following information.
(1) Sustainment overlay.
2-34

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-16. Example of a truck annex format (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT (continued).
(2) Maintenance.
(3) Transportation.
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—-repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
(5) Field services.
b. Personnel services support: Include the following information.
(1) Methods of marking and handling enemy prisoners of war.
(2) Religious services.
c. Army Health System support. Include the following information.
(1) Medical mission command.
(2) Medical treatment.
(3) Medical evacuation.
(4) Preventive medicine.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control: Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support including current SOI edition or refer to the higher
headquarters’ operation order. Include the following information.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).
Legend: CP–command post; OPSKED–operation schedule; SOI–signal operating instructions;
SOP−standard operating procedure
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-35

Chapter 2

COORDINATION CHECKLISTS
2-24. A PL or an SL checks specific items when planning for a combat operation. (See tables 2-17 through 2-24
on pages 2-36 through 2-42 for sample checklists of these items.) In some cases, the PL or SL coordinates
directly with the appropriate staff section. In most cases, the company commander or PL provides this
information. The PL or SL sometimes carries copies of these checklists to keep from overlooking any vital
element to the mission.
Table 2-17. Intelligence coordination checklist
INTELLIGENCE COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
The unit one level up constantly updates intelligence. This ensures the platoon leader’s plan reflects
the most recent enemy activity. Include the following information in the coordination brief.
1. Identification of enemy unit.
2. Weather and light data.
3. Terrain update.
a. Aerial photos.
b. Trails and obstacles not appearing on the map.
4. Known or suspected enemy locations.
5. Weapons.
6. Probable course of action.
7. Most dangerous course of action.
8. Recent enemy activities.
9. Reaction time of reaction forces.
10. Civilians in the battlespace.
11. Updates to the commander’s critical information requirement(s).
Table 2-18. Operations coordination checklist
OPERATIONS COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
The platoon or squad leader coordinates with the company commander or platoon leader to confirm
the mission and operations plan, receive last-minute changes, and update subordinates in person or
by issuing a fragmentary order. Include the following information in the coordination brief.
1. Mission confirmation brief.
2. Identification of friendly units.
3. Changes in the friendly situation.
4. Route selection and landing, pickup, and drop zone selections.
5. Commander’s critical information requirement(s).
a. Changes to priority intelligence requirement(s).
b. Changes to friendly force information requirement(s).
c. Changes to essential elements of friendly information.
d. Changes to rules of engagement.

2-36

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-18. Operations coordination checklist (continued)
6. Linkup procedures.
a. Contingencies.
b. QRF.
c. QRF frequency.
7. Transportation and movement plan.
8. Resupply (with S–4).
9. Signal plan.
10. Departure and reentry of forward units.
11. Special equipment requirements.
12. Adjacent units in the area of operations.
13. Rehearsal areas.
14. Methods of insertion and extraction.
Legend: QRF–quick reaction force; S–4–battalion or brigade logistics staff officer
Table 2-19. Fire support coordination
FIRE SUPPORT COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
The platoon or squad leader coordinates the following with the forward observer at squad level and the
fire support officer at platoon level. Include the following information in the coordination brief.
1. Mission confirmation brief.
2. Identification of the supporting unit.
3. Mission and objective.
4. Routes including alternate routes to and from the objective.
5. Time of departure and expected time of return.
6. Unit target list from the fire plan.
7. Types of available support (for example, artillery, mortar, naval gunfire, aerial support—including
Army, Navy, and Air Force) and their locations.
8. Ammunition available including different fuzes.
9. Priority of fires.
10. Control measures.
a. Checkpoints.
b. Boundaries.
c. Phase lines.
d. Fire support coordination measures.
e. Priority targets (target list).
f. Restrictive fire area.
g. Restrictive fire line.
h. No-fire area.
i. Precoordinated authentication.
11. Communication including primary and alternate means, emergency signals, and code words.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-37

Chapter 2
Table 2-20. Coordination with forward unit checklist
COORDINATION WITH FORWARD UNIT CHECKLIST.
A platoon or squad requiring foot movement through a friendly forward unit coordinates with that unit’s
commander for a safe, orderly passage. When no designated time and place for coordination with the
forward unit exists, the platoon or squad leader sets a time and place to coordinate with the S–3. The
leader speaks to a forward unit member with the authority to commit that forward unit to assisting the
platoon or squad during departure. Coordination is a two-way exchange of information. Include the
following information in the coordination brief.
1. Identification of yourself and your unit.
2. Size of the platoon or squad.
3. General area of operations.
4. Known or suspected enemy positions or obstacles.
5. Possible enemy ambush sites.
6. Latest enemy activity.
7. Detailed information on friendly positions such as crew-served weapons and final protective fire.
8. Fire and barrier plan.
a. Support the unit is capable of furnishing such as what they do and for how long.
(1) Fire support.
(2) Aid and litter teams.
(3) Navigational signals and aids.
(4) Guides.
(5) Communications.
(6) Reaction units.
(7) Other.
b. Call signs and frequencies.
c. Pyrotechnic plan.
d. Challenge and password, running password, and number combination.
e. Emergency signals and code words.
f. Instruction to pass information to any relieving unit.
g. Recognition signals.
Legend: S–3–battalion or brigade operations staff officer
Table 2-21. Adjacent unit coordination checklist
ADJACENT UNIT COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
Immediately after the operation order or mission briefing, the platoon or squad leader checks with
other platoon and squad leaders who will be operating in the same areas. When the leader is unaware
of any other units operating in the area, the leader checks with the S–3 during the operations
coordination. The S–3 can help arrange any necessary coordination. The platoon and squad leaders
exchange the following information with other units operating in the same area.
1. Identification of the unit.
2. Mission and size of the unit.
3. Planned times and points of departure and reentry.
2-38

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-21. Adjacent unit coordination checklist (continued)
4. Route(s).
5. Fire support and control measures.
6. Frequencies and call signs.
7. Challenge and password, running password, and number combination.
8. Pyrotechnic plan.
9. Any information the unit has about the enemy.
10. Recognition signals.
Legend: S–3–battalion or brigade operations staff officer
Table 2-22. Rehearsal area coordination checklist
REHEARSAL AREA COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
The assistant patrol leader coordinates the use of the rehearsal area to facilitate the unit’s safe,
efficient, and effective use of the area before its mission. Include the following information in the
coordination brief.
1. Identification of the unit.
2. Mission.
3. Terrain similar to that of the objective site.
4. Security of the area.
5. Availability of aggressors.
6. Use of blanks, pyrotechnics, and ammunition.
7. Mockups available.
8. Time the area is available, preferably when the light conditions approximate those of the patrol.
9. Transportation.
10. Coordination with other units using the area.
Table 2-23. Army aviation coordination checklist
ARMY AVIATION COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
The patrol leader coordinates this with the company commander or S–3 Air to facilitate the time and
detailed and effective use of aviation assets as they apply to the tactical mission:
1. SITUATION. Include the following information.
a. Enemy.
(1) Air capability.
(2) ADA capability.
(3) Weather including the percent of illumination, illumination angle, night-vision device window,
ceiling, and visibility.
b. Friendly.
(1) Unit(s) supporting the operation and axis of movement/corridor/routes.
(2) ADA status.
2. MISSION. Who, what (task), when, where, and why (purpose).

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-39

Chapter 2
Table 2-23. Army aviation coordination checklist (continued)
3. EXECUTION. Include the following information.
a. Concept of operations: Overview of what the requesting unit wants to accomplish with the
air assault / air movement.
b. Tasks to combat units.
(1) Infantry.
(2) Attack aviation.
c. Tasks to combat support units.
(1) Artillery.
(2) Aviation (lift).
d. Coordinating instructions.
(1) PZ.
(a) Direction of landing.
(b) Time of landing and flight direction.
(c) Locations of PZ and alternate PZ.
(d) Loading procedures.
(e) Marking of PZ (for example, by panel, smoke, signal mirror, lights).
(f) Planned flight route including start point, air control point, and release point.
(g) Formations (PZ, en route, LZ).
(h) Code words.
_1_ PZ secure (before landing), PZ clear (lead bird and last bird).
_2_ Alternate PZ (PZ, en route, LZ), names of PZ and alternate PZ.
(i) TAC air and artillery.
(j) Number of passengers for each helicopter and for the entire lift.
(k) Equipment carried by individuals.
(l) Marking of key leaders.
(m) Abort criteria (PZ, en route, LZ).
(2) LZ.
(a) Direction of landing.
(b) False insertion plans.
(c) Time of landing in LZ’s time zone.
(d) Locations of LZ and alternate LZ.
(e) Marking of LZ (for example, by panel, smoke, signal mirror, lights).
(f) Formation of landing.
(g) Code words and names of LZ and alternate LZ.
(h) TAC air and artillery preparation, fire support coordination.
_1_ Secure LZ?
_2_ Do not secure LZ?

2-40

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations
Table 2-23. Army aviation coordination checklist (continued)
4. SUSTAINMENT. Brief only those specifics not covered in the base order. Include the number of
aircraft for each lift, number of lifts, whether the aircraft will refuel or rearm during the mission,
special equipment carried by personnel, aircraft configuration, a bump plan, and the following info.
a. Logistics.
(1) Sustainment overlay.
(2) Maintenance.
(3) Transportation.
(4) Supply.
(a) Class I—food, rations, and water.
(b) Class III—petroleum, oils, and lubricants.
(c) Class V—ammunition and explosives.
(d) Class VII—major end items.
(e) Class VIII—medical materiel.
(f) Class IX—repair parts.
(g) Distribution methods.
(5) Field services.
b. Personnel services support.
(1) Methods of marking and handling enemy prisoners of war.
(2) Religious services.
c. Army Health System support.
(1) Medical mission command.
(2) Medical treatment.
(3) Medical evacuation.
(4) Preventive medicine.
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL.
a. Command: Include the following information.
(1) Location of commander or patrol leader: State where the commander intends to be during
the operation, by phase whenever the operation is phased. Also include the locations of the
air mission commander, ground tactical commander, and air assault task force commander.
(2) Succession of command: State the succession of command when the unit’s SOP does not.
b. Control. Include the following information.
(1) CPs: Describe the employment of any CPs including the location of each CP and its times of
opening and closing. Typically, at platoon level, any reference to CPs is to the company CP.
(2) Reports: List reports not covered in the SOPs.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-41

Chapter 2
Table 2-23. Army aviation coordination checklist (continued)
5. COMMAND AND SIGNAL (continued).
c. Signal: Describe the concept of signal support including current SOI edition or refer to the higher
headquarters’ operation order.
(1) Identify the SOI index in effect.
(2) Identify methods of communication by priority.
(3) Describe pyrotechnics and signals such as hand and arm and demonstrate as appropriate.
(4) Give code words such as OPSKEDs.
(5) Give the challenge and password for use behind friendly lines.
(6) Give the number combination for use forward of friendly lines.
(7) Give the running password.
(8) Give recognition signals (near—far, day—night).
Legend: ADA–air defense artillery; CP–command post; LZ–landing zone; OPSKED−operation
schedule; PZ–pickup zone; S–3–battalion or brigade operations staff officer; SOI–signal operating
instructions; SOP−standard operating procedure; TAC–tactical
Table 2-24. Vehicular movement coordination checklist
VEHICULAR MOVEMENT COORDINATION CHECKLIST.
The platoon or first sergeant coordinates this with the supporting unit to facilitate the effective, detailed,
and efficient use of vehicular support and assets. Include the following information in the coordination
brief.
1. Identification of the unit.
2. Identification of the supporting unit.
3. Number and type of vehicles and tactical preparation.
4. Entrucking point.
5. Departure time.
6. Preparation of vehicles for movement.
a. Driver’s responsibilities.
b. Platoon’s and squad’s responsibilities.
c. Requisite special supplies and equipment.
7. Availability of vehicles for preparation, rehearsals, and inspection, as well as times and locations.
8. Routes.
a. Primary.
b. Alternate.
c. Checkpoints.
9. De-trucking points.
a. Primary.
b. Alternate.
10. Order of march.
11. Speed.
12. Communications including frequencies, call signs, and codes.
13. Emergency procedures and signals.
2-42

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations

ACTIONS, PURPOSE, OPERATIONS, AND TASKS
2-25. Friendly forces take actions with the intention of producing the effects those actions are designed to have
on the enemy. (See table 2-25 for those actions.) Purpose is the desired or intended result of the tactical operation
stated in terms related to the enemy or the desired situation. Purpose is the why of the mission statement and
often follows the words in order to. It is the most important component of the mission statement. (See
table 2-26.)
Table 2-25. Tactical mission tasks
Attack by fire

Control

Follow and assume

Retain

Block

Counterreconnaissance

Follow and support

Secure

Breach

Destroy

Interdict

Seize

Bypass

Disengage

Isolate

Support by fire

Canalize

Disrupt

Neutralize

Suppress

Clear

Exfiltrate

Occupy

Turn

Contain

Fix

Reduce
Table 2-26. Purpose of mission statement
Allow

Divert

Cause

Enable

Prevent
Protect

Create

Envelop

Support

Deceive

Influence

Surprise

Deny

Open

2-26. An operation is a military action or the carrying out of a military action to gain the objectives of any given
battle or campaign. Rangers accomplish operations through tasks. A task is a specific, clearly defined, decisive,
and measurable activity or action accomplished by a Ranger or organization that contributes to the achievement
of encompassing missions or other requirements. (See table 2-27 on page 2-44.) Also, some shaping tasks are
vital to the security of Soldiers and the success of missions. (See table 2-28 on page 2-44.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-43

Chapter 2
Table 2-27. Elements of offense and of defense

ELEMENTS OF OFFENSE AND SUBORDINATE TASKS
Offensive Tasks

Defensive Tasks
Area defense

Variations of the movement to contact:
Search and attack
Cordon and search

Variations of the area defense:
Defense of a linear obstacle
Perimeter defense
Reverse slope defense

Attack
Variations of the attack:
Ambush
Counterattack
Raid
Spoiling attack

Mobile defense

ELEMENTS OF DEFENSE AND SUBORDINATE TASKS
Offensive Tasks

Defensive Tasks

Movement to contact
Attack
Exploit
Pursuit

Retrograde
Variations of the retrograde:
Delay
Withdrawal
Retirement

Forms of maneuver:
Frontal attack
Penetration
Envelopment
Turning movement
Infiltration

Table 2-28. Enabling operations
Reconnaissance:
Zone
Area
Route
Reconnaissance in force
Special

Security:
Screen
Guard
Cover
Area security

Troop movement:
Nontactical movement
Tactical movement

Relief in place

Passage of lines

Countermobility

Mobility

Tactical deception

Linkup

2-44

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Operations

TERRAIN MODEL
2-27. During the planning process, the terrain model (see figure 2-2 on page 2-46) offers an effective visual
communication of the patrol routes and detail actions on the objective. At a minimum, the model is useful for
displaying routes to the objective and highlighting prominent terrain features the patrol encounters during
movement. A second terrain model of the objective area also supports the planning process. It is large and
detailed enough to brief the patrol’s actions on the objective.
a. Checklist. Include the following items in the terrain models.
(1) North-seeking arrow.
(2) Scale.
(3) Grid lines.
(4) Objective location.
(5) Exaggerated terrain relief and water obstacles.
(6) Friendly patrol locations.
(7) Targets (indirect fire including grid and type of round).
(8) Primary and alternate routes.
(9) Planned release points (RPs): objective rally point, linkup rally point, RP.
(10) Danger areas such roads, trails, and open areas.
(11) Legend.
(12) Blowup of objective area.
b. Construction. Some field-expedient techniques for constructing terrain models follow.
(1) Use a 3-inch by 5-inch card from a ready-to-eat meal box or a piece of paper to label the objective
or key sites.
(2) Use colored tape or string from the guts of parachute cord to make grid lines. Identify the grids
with numbers written on small pieces of paper.
(3) Replicate trees and vegetation using moss, green or brown spray paint, pine needles, crushed
leaves, or cut grass.
(4) Use blue chalk, blue spray paint, blue yarn, tin foil, or creamer from a ready-to-eat meal to
designate bodies of water.
(5) Make north-seeking arrows from sharpened twigs, pencils, or colored yarn.
(6) Use red yarn, 5.56-millimeter (mm) rounds, toy soldiers, or poker chips to designate enemy
positions.
(7) Construct friendly positions such as security elements, support by fire, and assault elements using
5.56-mm rounds, toy soldiers, poker chips, sugar or coffee packets from ready-to-eat meals, or
preprinted acetate cards.
(8) Use small pieces of cardboard or paper to identify target reference points and indirect fire targets.
Show the grids for each point.
(9) Construct breach, support by fire, and assault positions using the same methods and again using
colored yarn or string for easy identification.
(10) Construct bunkers and buildings using ready-to-eat meal boxes, tongue depressors, or sticks.
(11) Construct perimeter wire from a spiral notebook.
(12) Construct key phase lines with colored string or yarn.
(13) Use colored tape or yarn to replicate trench lines by digging a furrow and tinting it with colored
chalk or spray paint.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

2-45

Chapter 2
Note. Clearly identify in a legend all the symbols on the terrain model.

Figure 2-2. Terrain model

2-46

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 3
Fire Support
Indirect fire support greatly increases the combat effectiveness and survivability of any
Infantry unit. Every Ranger and small-unit leader masters planning for and using this
asset effectively. Fire support assets help a unit by suppressing, fixing, destroying, or
neutralizing the enemy. Leaders consider employing indirect fire support throughout
every offensive and defensive operation. This chapter discusses plans, tasks, capabilities,
risk estimate distances (REDs), target overlays, close air support (CAS) elements, and
sequences of calls for fire. It also provides an example of call for fire transmissions. (See
appendix A for more information on fire support.)

BASIC TASKS AND TARGETING
3-1. The effectiveness of the fire support system depends on successful performance of its four basic tasks.
These include supporting forces in contact, supporting the battle plan, synchronizing the fire support system,
and sustaining the fire support system. Targeting objectives is the overall effect the leader hopes to achieve with
fire support assets. The first functional step in the targeting process is to decide. A decision defines the overall
focus and sets priorities for collecting intelligence and planning the attack. The leader addresses targeting
priorities for each phase or critical event of an operation. At all echelons, one or more alternative COA(s) is/are
analyzed. Each is based on mission analysis, current and projected battle situations, and anticipated
opportunities.
3-2. The second critical function is to detect. The intelligence officer (either the assistant chief of staff for
intelligence or the battalion or brigade intelligence staff officer) directs the effort to detect the high-payoff targets
identified during the step to decide. To identify the exact who, what, when, and how of target acquisition, the
intelligence officer works closely with the analysis and control element, field artillery intelligence officer,
targeting officer, and fire support officer.

INTERDICTION
3-3. Interdiction is an action to limit, divert, disrupt, delay, destroy, and damage the enemy’s military surface
capabilities such as vessels, vehicles, aircraft, personnel, and cargo before their effective use against friendly
forces succeeds, or to otherwise achieve friendly objectives. Table 3-1 on page 3-2 and table 3-2 on page 3-3
outline the capabilities of mortars and field artillery. Interdiction—
• Limits — Reduces enemy options (for example, direct air interdiction and fire support to limit the
enemy’s AAs and fire support).
• Diverts — Creates a distraction that forces the enemy to tie up critical resources (for example, an attack
on targets that causes the enemy to move capabilities or assets from one area or activity to another).
• Disrupts — Stops effective interaction between the enemy and their support systems, reduces enemy
efficiency, and increases their vulnerability.
• Delays — Disrupts, diverts, or destroys enemy capabilities or targets. Changes the enemy’s abilities
to reach a certain point in the battlespace or to project combat power from it.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-1

Chapter 3
•

•

Destroys — Ruins the structure or condition of a vital enemy target. Destruction is definable as an
objective by providing a quantity or percentage of an enemy asset or target the friendly weapon
system(s) can realistically destroy. For example, artillery normally states destruction comprises a
30-percent reduction in capability or structural integrity; maneuver combat forces normally claim
70 percent.
Damages — Effects battle damage on the objective, which a subsequent subjective or objective
assessment deems light, moderate, or severe.
Table 3-1. Capabilities of mortars

Munition
Available

Maximum
Range

Minimum
Range

60-mm

HE, WP,
Illum

3,490 m
(HE)

81-mm

HE, WP,
Illum

5,608 m
(HE)

Weapon

Maximum
Rate of
Fire

Sustained
Rate of Fire

Burst
Diameter

70 m
(HE)

30 RPM
for
4 minutes

15–20 RPM
(depends on
ammo)

30 m

83 m
(HE)

25–30
RPM for
2 minutes
(depends
on ammo)

8–15 RPM
(depends on
ammo)

38 m

16 RPM
for
4 RPM
60 m
1 minute
Note: See TM 9-1010-233-10 for the 60-mm mortar’s sustained rates of fire by ammunition type. See
TM 9-1015-249-10 and TM 9-1015-257-10 for the 81-mm mortar’s maximum and sustained rates of fire
by ammunition type.
Legend: ammo–ammunition; HE–high explosive; Illum–illumination; m–meter; mm–millimeter; RPM–
rounds per minute; WP–white phosphorous
120-mm

3-2

HE, Smoke,
Illum

7,200 m
(HE)

200 m
(HE)

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
Table 3-2. Capabilities of field artillery
ARTILLERY

RANGE
(meters)

AMMUNITION
Projectile

105-mm
M119

HE, WP, Illum,
Illum (IR),
DPICM

155-mm
M198

HE, WP, Illum,
Illum (IR),
DPICM,
M825 smoke,
SCATMINE

Fuze

PD,
VT,
MT,
ET,
MTSQ,
Delay

155-mm
M109A5 /
A6 / A7
HE, WP, Illum,
Illum (IR),
DPICM,
M825 smoke,
SCATMINE

PD,
VT,
MT,
ET,
MTSQ,
Delay,
PGK

RATES OF FIRE
(rounds per minute)

Maximum

DPICM

RAP

Sustained

Maximum

11,500

14,100

19,500

3

10

18,300 or
22,000 with
M795 HE,
M825 smoke

18,000
M483
or
28,200
with
M864

30,100

2

4 for 2
minutes
then 2

18,200 or
21,700 with
M795 HE,
M825 smoke;
24,500 with
M982
Block 1-1a1

17,900
M483
or
28,100
with
M864

1

4 for 2
minutes
then 1

22,200 with
30,000
M201A1
charge 8S
17,900
or
or
4 for 2
155-mm
22,500 with
28,100
2
minutes
M777-series
M232,
with
then 2
Zone 5;
M864
24,500 with
M982
Block 1-1a.
Note: Excalibur rounds are not authorized for the M109A5.
Legend:
DPICM–dual-purpose
improved
conventional
munitions;
ET–electronic
time;
HC–hexachloroethane; HE–high explosive; Illum–illumination; IR–infrared; mm–millimeter;
MT–mechanical time; MTSQ–mechanical time and super quick; PD–point detonating; PGK–precision
guidance kit; RAP–rocket assisted projectile; SCATMINE–scatterable mine; VT–variable time;
WP–white phosphorus

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-3

Chapter 3

DANGER
For mortars and field artillery, when the target is
within 600 meters of any friendly troops, announce
DANGER CLOSE in the method of engagement
portion of the call for fire.
When adjusting 5-inch or smaller naval guns on
targets within 750 meters, announce DANGER
CLOSE. For larger naval guns on targets within
1,000 meters, announce DANGER CLOSE. Failure to
adhere to this guidance can result in fratricide.
Avoid making corrections in using the bracketing
method of adjustment. Doing so can result in
personnel death or serious injury. Use only the
creeping method of adjustment during danger close
missions. Make corrections of no more than
100 meters by creeping the rounds to the target.

RISK ESTIMATE DISTANCE
3-4. RED applies to combat only, whereas minimum safe distances apply to training. RED takes into account
the bursting radius of particular munitions and the characteristics of the delivery system. It associates this
combination with a percentage likelihood of becoming a casualty. This is the percentage of risk.

WARNING
Use RED formulas only in combat to determine
acceptable risk levels and to identify the risk to
Rangers at various distances from the targets.
When training, use minimum safe distances. (See
AR 385-63, DA Pam 385-63, and ATP 5-19.)

3-5. RED is defined as the minimum distance friendly troops can approach the effects of friendly fire without
suffering appreciable casualties of a 0.1-percent or higher point of impact. Table 3-3 gives the REDs for mortars

3-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
and cannon artillery and includes
ATP 3-09.32 for information on REDs.)

the

dual-purpose

improved

conventional

munitions.

(See

Table 3-3. Risk estimate distances for unguided mortars and cannon artillery
UNGUIDED MORTAR RISK ESTIMATE DISTANCES
System

Description

Danger Close

Range

0.1 percent PI
Standing

Prone

115 m / 378 ft
125 m / 410 ft
145 m / 476 ft

115 m / 378 ft
120 m / 394 ft
145 m / 476 ft

M224
M224A1

60-mm mortar

600 m

1/3
2/3
max

M252
M252A1

600 m

1/3
2/3
max

170 m / 558 ft

81-mm mortar

195 m / 640 ft

160 m / 525 ft
185 m / 607 ft
190 m / 623 ft

M120
M120A1
M121

120-mm mortar

600 m

1/3
2/3
max

280 m / 919 ft
395 m / 1,296 ft
430 m / 1,411 ft

260 m / 853 ft
365 m / 1,198 ft
410 m / 1,345 ft

System

Description

Danger Close

Range

M119
M119A2

105-mm howitzer HE
(M1 Comp B/M760)

600 m

105-mm howitzer HERA
(M913 HERA / M297 HERA)

600 m

UNGUIDED CANNON ARTILLERY RISK ESTIMATE DISTANCES

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

0.1 percent PI
Standing

Prone

1/3
2/3
max

290 m / 951 ft
300 m / 984 ft
455 m / 1,493 ft

270 m / 886 ft
285 m / 935 ft
430 m / 1,411 ft

1/3
2/3
max

250 m / 820 ft
410 m / 1,345 ft
650 m / 2,133 ft

230 m / 755 ft
285 m / 935 ft
430 m / 1,411 ft

3-5

Chapter 3

Table 3-3. Risk estimate distances for unguided mortars and cannon artillery (continued)
UNGUIDED CANNON ARTILLERY RISK ESTIMATE DISTANCES
System

Description

Danger Close

Range

M109A6
M777A2

155-mm howitzer HE
(M107 Comp B/M795)

600 m

155-mm howitzer DPICM
(M483A1)

0.1 percent PI
Standing

Prone

1/3
2/3
max

300 m / 984 ft
460 m / 1,509 ft
695 m / 2,280 ft

285 m / 935 ft
440 m / 1,444 ft
665 m / 2,182 ft

600 m

1/3
2/3
max

270 m / 886 ft
325 m / 1,066 ft
510 m / 1,673 ft

260 m / 853 ft
310 m / 1,017 ft
490 m / 1,608 ft

155-mm howitzer DPICM
(M864)

600 m

1/3
2/3
max

325 m / 1,066 ft
500 m / 1,640 ft
825 m / 2,707 ft

305 m / 1,001 ft
485 m / 1,591 ft
775 m / 2,543 ft

155-mm howitzer RAP
(M945A1 RAP)

600 m

1/3
360 m / 1,181 ft
360 m / 1,181 ft
2/3
530 m / 1,739 ft
520 m / 1,706 ft
max
1,045 m / 3,428 ft
965 m / 3,166 ft
Note: See ATP 3-09.32, appendix I for information on danger close.
Legend: DPICM–dual-purpose improved conventional munitions; ft–feet; HE–high explosive;
HERA–high explosive, rocket assisted; m–meter; max–maximum; mm–millimeter; PI–probability of
incapacitation; RAP–rocket assisted projectile
3-6. Casualty criterion is the 5-minute assault criterion for a prone Ranger in winter clothing and helmet.
Physical incapacitation means a Ranger is physically unable to function in an assault within a 5-minute period
after an attack. A point of impact value of less than 0.1 percent is interpretable as less than or equal to one chance
in one thousand.
3-7. Echeloning fires within the specified RED for a delivery system requires the unit to assume some risk. The
maneuver commander determines by delivery system how close to the forces to allow the fires to fall. Although
the decision is made at this risk level, the commander relies heavily on the fire support officer’s expertise.
TARGET OVERLAYS
3-8. Table 3-4 lists the contents of fire support overlay. Figure 3-1 depicts the sterile fire support overlay.
Figure 3-2 on page 3-8 illustrates the nonsterile fire support overlay, which includes target symbols and index
marks to position the overlay on a map.

3-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
Table 3-4. Contents of fire support overlay

Unit and official capacity of person making overlay.
Date of overlay preparation.
Map sheet number.
Effective period of overlay (day, time, group).
Priority target.
Location of objective rally point.
Call signs and frequencies (primary and alternate).

Primary and alternate routes.
Phase lines and checkpoints used by patrol.
Spares.
Index marks to position overlay on map.
Objective.
Target symbols.
Completed description, location, and remarks column.

Figure 3-1. Sterile fire support overlay

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-7

Chapter 3

Figure 3-2. Nonsterile fire support overlay

3-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
3-9. Using the checklist of target, trigger, location, observer, delivery system, attack guidance, and
communications network (see table 3-5) helps ensure the leader’s fire support plan is complete. It is useful for
identifying all aspects of individual targets before coordination and the OPORD.
Table 3-5. Checklist of target–trigger–location–observer–delivery system–attack guidance–
communications network
Target

Number or type of targets

Trigger

When to fire the target

Location

Minimum of six-digit grid

Observer

Primary and alternate

Delivery system

Mortar, artillery, air

Attack guidance

Ammo, special instructions

Communications network
Company TAC, arty CFL
Note: See ATP 3-09.32 for information on fire support.
Legend: ammo–ammunition; arty CFL–artillery coordinated fire line; TAC–tactical air controller
CALL FOR FIRE
3-10. A call for fire involves specific steps, starting with call signs and the WARNORD. These steps are precise
to preserve both the safety of Rangers and the accurate hits on the target. Asterisks (*) below indicate requisite
elements for a basic call for fire mission. The format for delivering a call for fire follows.
a. Observer’s identification. Call signs.*
b. WARNORD.*
(1) Type of mission.
(a) Adjust fire.
(b) Fire for effect.
(c) Suppress.
(d) Immediate suppression / immediate smoke.
(2) Size of element to fire for effect. When the observer does not specify the size of element to fire,
the battalion fire direction center (FDC) decides.
c. Method of target location.*
(1) Polar plot.
(2) Shift from a known point.
(3) Grid.
(4) Laser grid.
(5) Laser plot.
d. Location of target.*
(1) Grid coordinates. Requisite six-digit grid and altitude. For greater accuracy, eight- or ten-digit grid.
(2) Shift from a known point. Send the observer the target direction.
(a) Milliradians (nearest 10).
(b) Degrees.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-9

Chapter 3
(c) Cardinal direction.
(d) Send lateral shift, right/left, nearest 10 meters.
(e) Send range shift, add/drop, nearest 100 meters.
(f) Send vertical shift, up/down, nearest 5 meters. Use only when it exceeds 35 meters.
(3) Polar plot.
(a) Send direction to nearest 10 milliradians.
(b) Send distance to nearest 100 meters.
(c) Send vertical shift to nearest 5 meters.
e. Description of target.*
(1) Type.
(2) Activity.
(3) Number.
(4) Degree of protection.
(5) Size and shape (length, width, or radius).
f. Method of engagement.
(1) Type of adjustment. When the observer does not request a specific type of fire control adjustment,
issue area fire.
(a) Precision fire = point target.
(b) Area fire = moving target.
(2) Danger close. This condition exists when friendly troops are within—
(a) 600 meters for mortars.
(b) 600 meters for artillery.
(c) 750 meters for naval guns, 5 inches or smaller.
(3) Mark (to orient observer or indicate targets).
(4) Trajectory.
(a) Low angle (standard).
(b) High angle (mortar fire or as requested).
(5) Ammunition. Use high explosive (HE) projectiles and quick fuzes unless specified by the observer.
(a) Projectile (HE, illumination, improved conventional munitions, smoke).
(b) Fuze (quick, timed, or other options).
(c) Volume of fire. The observer may request the number of rounds to fire.
(6) Distribution.
(a) 100-meter sheaf (standard).
(b) Converged sheaf (small, hard targets).
(c) Special sheaf (any length, width, and attitude).
(d) Open sheaf (separate bursts).
(e) Parallel sheaf (linear target).
g. Method of fire and of control.
(1) Method of fire. Specific guns and a specific interval between rounds. Normally adjust fire: one gun
is useful with a 5-second interval between rounds.
(2) Method of control.
(a) AT MY COMMAND, FIRE. Remains in effect until the observer orders CANCEL AT MY
COMMAND.
3-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
(b) CANNOT OBSERVE. The observer cannot see the target.
(c) TIME ON TARGET. The observer tells the FDC when the rounds should impact.
(d) CONTINUOUS ILLUMINATION. When this is not already calculated by the FDC, the observer
indicates the interval between rounds in seconds.
(e) COORDINATED ILLUMINATION. The observer tells the FDC to set the interval between
illumination and HE shells.
(f) CEASE LOADING.
(g) CHECK FIRING. Halt immediately.
(h) CONTINUOUS FIRE. Load and fire as quickly as possible.
(i) REPEAT. Fire another round or more rounds, with or without adjustments.
(j) FOLLOWED BY. This is part of a phrase that indicates a change in the rate of fire, a change in the
type of ammunition, or another order for fire for effect (for example [with WP being white
phosphorus], WP FOLLOWED BY HE).
h. Correction of errors. When the FDC has made an error while reading backfire support data, the
observer announces CORRECTION and transmits the correct data in their entirety.
i. Message to observer.
(1) Battery(ies) to fire for effect.
(2) Adjustment of battery.
(3) Changes to the initial call for fire.
(4) Number of rounds (per tube) to fire for effect.
(5) Target numbers.
(6) Additional information.
(a) Time of flight (moving target mission).
(b) Probable error in range (38 meters or greater [normal mission]).
(c) Angle-T (500 milliradians or greater).
j. Authentication. Challenge and reply.
3-11. Table 3-6 provides one sample call for fire transmission.
Table 3-6. Example of a call for fire transmission

GRID
Observer

Firing Unit

F24, THIS IS J42, ADJUST FIRE, OVER.

J42, THIS IS F24, ADJUST FIRE, OUT.

GRID WM180513, ALTITUDE 300, OVER.

GRID WM180513, ALTITUDE 300, OUT.

INFANTRY PLATOON DUG IN, OVER.

INFANTRY PLATOON DUG IN, OUT.
SHOT, OVER.

SHOT, OUT.
SPLASH, OVER.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-11

Chapter 3
Table 3-6. Example of a call for fire transmission (continued)
Observer (continued)

Firing Unit (continued)

SPLASH, OUT.
END OF MISSION, 15 CASUALTIES,
PLATOON DISPERSED, OVER.

END OF MISSION, 15 CASUALTIES,
PLATOON DISPERSED, OUT.

SHIFT FROM KNOWN POINT
Observer

Firing Unit

J42, THIS IS F24, ADJUST FIRE,
SHIFT AB1001, OVER.

F24, THIS IS J42, ADJUST FIRE,
SHIFT AB1001, OUT.

DIRECTION 2,420, RIGHT 400, ADD 400,
OVER.

DIRECTION 2,420, RIGHT 400, ADD 400, OUT.

FIVE T-72 TANKS AT POL SITE, OVER.

FIVE T-72 TANKS AT POL SITE
AUTHENTICATE JULIET NOVEMBER, OVER.

I AUTHENTICATE TANGO, OVER.
SHOT, OVER.
SHOT, OUT.
END OF MISSION, TWO TANKS DESTROYED,
THREE IN WOODLINE, OVER.

END OF MISSION, TWO TANKS DESTROYED,
THREE IN WOODLINE, OUT.

POLAR
Observer

Firing Unit

J42, THIS IS F24, ADJUST FIRE, POLAR,
OVER.

F24, THIS IS J42, ADJUST FIRE, POLAR, OUT.

DIRECTION 2,300, DISTANCE 4,000, OVER.

DIRECTION 2,300, DISTANCE 4,000, OUT.

INFANTRY PLATOON DUG IN, OVER.

INFANTRY PLATOON DUG IN, OUT.
SHOT, OVER.

SHOT, OUT.
SPLASH, OVER.
SPLASH, OUT.
END OF MISSION, 15 CASUALTIES,
PLATOON DISPERSED, OVER.
Legend: POL–petroleum, oils, and lubricants
3-12

END OF MISSION, 15 CASUALTIES,
PLATOON DISPERSED, OUT.

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support

CLOSE AIR SUPPORT
3-12. There are two types of CAS requests: planned and immediate. The Army chain to corps processes planned
requests for approval. The initiation of immediate requests occurs at any level, and the battalion operations
officer (S-3), fire support officer, and air liaison officer process them.
3-13. Figure 3-3 on page 3-14 provides one sample call for CAS. Tables 3-7 and 3-8 on pages 3-15 through 3-17
detail CAS capabilities. Table 3-7 details fixed-wing aircraft CAS capabilities, and table 3-8 details unmanned
aircraft system CAS capabilities. The format for requesting immediate CAS follows.
a. Observer identification.
b. WARNORD (request close air).
c. Target description. At a minimum, include the type and number of targets, activity or movement, and
point or area targets.
d. Target location (grid) to include elevation.
e. Desired time on target.
f. Desired effects on target.
g. Final control.
h. Remarks. Report the following information.
(1) Friendly locations.
(2) Wind direction and hazards.
(3) Threats such as air defense artillery or small arms.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-13

Chapter 3

Figure 3-3. Example of a close air support request

3-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
Table 3-7. Fixed-wing aircraft close air support capabilities
FIXED-WING AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES AND COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Sensors and
Markings

Frequency
Band

Frequency
Hopping

FLIR, SAR,
Sniper,
LITENING,
Terrainfollowing
radar

VHF-AM/FM,
UHF,
SATCOM

HQ II,
SINCGARS

VINSON

LITENING,
CCD TV,
FLIR, SAR,
LUU-2/19

None

UHF,
VHF-AM/FM

HQ II,
SINCGARS

VINSON

LGB, AGM-65,
GP bombs,
CBU/WCMD,
JDAM,
2.75-inch
rockets, 30-mm
cannon

LITENING,
Sniper Pave
Penny,
Quickdraw,
IZLID,
LUU-2/19

SADL, VMF

UHFx2,
VHF-AM/FM,
SATCOM

HQ II,
SINCGARS

VINSON

Electronic
attack

Link 16

SIGINT

3xUHF,
1xUHF,
2xHF,
2xSATCOM,
IRC, NCCT
chat, STE
(AITG
terminal also
configurable
to additional
UHF, VHF,
FM,
SINCGARS,
HQ, DAMA)

HQ II

Aircraft

Ordnance

F-15E
Strike Eagle

JDAM, LJDAM,
LGB,
CBU/WCMD,
AGM-130/158,
JSOW, 20-mm
cannon

Link 16

AV-8B
Harrier II

LGB,
AGM-65-E,
GP bombs,
CBU, JDAM,
LJDAM,
2.75-inch
rockets, 5-inch
Zuni

A-10C
Thunderbolt

EC-130
Compass
Call

19 September 2025

Data Link

TC 3-21.76

COMSEC

3-15

Chapter 3
Table 3-7. Fixed-wing aircraft close air support capabilities (continued)
FIXED-WING AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES AND COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Aircraft

Ordnance

AC-130J
Ghostrider

105-mm
howitzer,
40-mm cannon

Sensors and
Markings
IDS, PLS,
LLLTV,
beacontracking
radar, IZLID,
ATI,
HIBEAM,
LTD

Data Link
Link 16

Frequency
Band

Frequency
Hopping

COMSEC

UHFx2,
SATCOM,
HFx2, VHFAM/FMx3

HQ II,
SINCGARS

VINSON,
ANDVT

JDAM (with
SAR, sniper,
UHF, VHF,
HQ II,
DCI/JRE
VINSON
pattern
GMTI/T,
SATCOM
SINCGARS
capability),
PSS-SOF
voice, HF
GP bombs,
CBU/WCMD,
JASSM
Legend: AITG–airborne integrated terminal group; AM–amplitude modulation; ANDVT–advanced
narrowband digital voice terminal; ATI–ambient temperature illuminator; CBU–cluster bomb unit;
CCD–charged-coupled device; COMSEC–communications security; DAMA–demand assigned multiple
access; DCI–digital communications improvement; FLIR–forward-looking infrared; FM–frequency
modulation; GMTI/T–ground moving target indicator and tracking; GP–general purpose; HF–high
frequency; HIBEAM–high beam; HQ–HAVE QUICK [a frequency hopping system that protects military
UHF radio traffic]; IDS–infrared detection set; IRC – internet relay chat; IZLID–infrared zoom laser
illuminator designator; JASSM–joint air-to-surface standoff missile; JDAM–Joint Direct Attack Munition;
JRE–Joint Range Extension; JSOW–joint standoff weapon; LGB–laser-guided bomb; LITENING–[a
multi-sensor targeting and surveillance system]; LJDAM–laser JDAM; LLLTV–low light level television;
LTD–laser target designator; mm–millimeter; NCCT–network centric collaborative targeting;
PLS–personnel locator system; PSS-SOF–Precision Strike Suite-Special Operations Forces;
SADL–situation awareness data link; SAR–synthetic aperture radar; SATCOM–satellite
communications; SIGINT–signals intelligence; SINCGARS–single-channel ground and airborne radio
system; STE–secure telephone equipment; TV–television; UHF–ultrahigh frequency; VHF–very high
frequency; VINSON–[an encrypted UHF/VHF communications system]; VMF–variable message format;
WCMD–wind corrected munitions dispenser
B-1B Lancer

3-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
Table 3-8. Unmanned aircraft close air support capabilities
UAS CAPABILITIES AND COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Aircraft

Ordnance

Sensors and
Markings

Data Link

Hunter

None

MOSP (EO, IR,
ELRF, LD),
CRP

C-band (LOS)

UHF/VHF

MQ-1B
Predator

Hellfire

MTS, LTM,
LTD

Link 16,
PACWIND

UHF,
VHF–AM/FM,
SATCOM, VDL

HQ II,
SINCGARS

MQ-9
Reaper

Hellfire,
GBU-12,
GBU-38

MTS, SAR,
GMTI, LTM,
LTD

Link 16

UHF,
VHF–AM/FM,
SATCOM, VDL

HQ II,
SINCGARS

MQ-1C
Gray
Eagle

Hellfire

CSP (EO, IR,
ELRF/LD),
CRP,
SAR/GMTI

TCDL (Ku band),
SATCOM

VHF/UHF,
SATCOM

HQ II

RQ-7B
Shadow

None

IR, EO, IRLP,
LRF/D, LTD

VHF-FM, UHF2,
UHF2-SATCOM2
(CRP is
VHF-FM only)

HQ II,
SINCGARS

Frequency Band

Frequency
Hopping

COMSEC

VINSON

VINSON

RQ-11B
IR, EO,
None
None
None
None
None
Raven
IR Pointer
Note: MQ and RQ are nomenclature designations for UASs.
Legend: AM–amplitude modulation; C-band–[communications data link]; COMSEC–communications
security; CRP–communications relay payload; CSP–common sensor payload; ELRF–eyesafe laser
range finder; EO–electro-optical; FM–frequency modulation; GBU–guided bomb unit; GMTI–ground
moving target indicator; HQ–HAVE QUICK [a frequency hopping system that protects military UHF radio
traffic]; IR–infrared; IRLP–infrared laser pointer; LD–laser designator; LOS–line of sight; LRF/D–laser
range finder/detector; LTD–laser target designator; LTM–laser target marker; MOSP–multi-mission
optronic stabilized payload; MTS–multi-spectral targeting system; PACWIND–[an LOS full-motion video
signal]; SAR–synthetic aperture radar; SATCOM–satellite communications; SINCGARS–single-channel
ground and airborne radio system; TCDL–tactical common data link; UAS–unmanned aircraft system;
UHF–ultrahigh frequency; VDL–video downlink; VHF–very high frequency; VINSON–[an encrypted
UHF/VHF communications system]

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-17

Chapter 3

ARMY ATTACK AVIATION
3-14. Army attack aviation is defined as a hasty or deliberate attack in support of units engaged in close combat.
During an attack, armed helicopters engage enemy units with direct fire that impacts nearby friendly forces.
Targets range from a few hundred meters to a few thousand meters. A team, a platoon, or company-level ground
unit Soldiers coordinate and direct Army attack aviation by using standardized Army attack aviation procedures
in their units’ SOPs. Table 3-9 provides one sample army attack aviation call for fire in its standard format with
added notations for explanation.
Table 3-9. Army attack aviation call for fire format

ARMY ATTACK AVIATION CALL FOR FIRE FORMAT
1. Observer and warning order: LONGBOW 6, THIS IS OBSERVER 2, FIRE MISSION, OVER.
(aircraft call sign)
(observer call sign)
2. Friendly location and mark: MY POSITION NP359654, MARKED BY STROBE.
(TRP, grid, other)
(strobe, beacon, IR strobe, other)
3. Target location: TARGET LOCATION NP459854.
(bearing [magnetic] and range [meters], TRP, grid, other)
4. Target description and mark: 3 TANKS, MARKED BY INFRARED POINTER.
(target description)
(infrared pointer, tracer, other)
5. Remarks:
NONE
..
(threats, danger close clearance, restriction, at my command, other)
NOTES:
1. Clearance. When the airspace is clear between the employing aircraft and the target, transmission of this brief is clearance
to fire unless DANGER CLOSE or AT MY COMMAND is stated.
2. Danger close. For danger close fire, the observer or commander accepts responsibility for increased risk. State CLEARED
DANGER CLOSE on line 5 and pass the initials of the on-scene ground commander. This clearance is sometimes
preplanned.
3. At my command. For positive control of the aircraft, state AT MY COMMAND on line 5. The aircraft calls READY TO FIRE
when ready.
Legend: IR–infrared; TRP–target reference point
3-15. During the planning process, the team-, platoon-, or company-level leaders are responsible for allowing
enough time to conduct rehearsals between the ground unit and the aviation unit. Rehearsals ensure all
participants in the mission have situational awareness of the plan, routes, capabilities, and limitations of each
unit. They walk away understanding what they are to provide and how they are to support. Table 3-10 details
rotary-wing aircraft CAS capabilities.

3-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Fire Support
Table 3-10. Rotary-wing aircraft close air support capabilities
ROTARY-WING AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES AND COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Aircraft
AH-6

Ordnance
7.62-mm MG, Caliber
.50 MG, 2.75-inch
rockets

Sensors and
Markings

Data
Link

FLIR, IR
Pointer

Frequency Band

Frequency
Hopping

COMSEC

VHF-AM/FMx2,
UHF-AM/FM,
SATCOM

HQ II,
SINCGARS

VINSON,
ANDVT

Hellfire (laser or RF),
FLIR (LTD3),
VHF-AM,
HQ II,
VINSON
2.75-inch rockets,
MMW, radar,
VHF-FMx2
SINCGARS
30-mm cannon
DTV, IZLID
Legend: AM–amplitude modulation; ANDVT–advanced narrowband digital voice terminal;
COMSEC–communications security; DTV–day television; FLIR–forward-looking infrared; FM–frequency
modulation; HQ–HAVE QUICK [a frequency hopping system that protects military UHF radio traffic];
IR–infrared; IZLID–infrared zoom laser illuminator designator; LTD–laser target designator;
MG–machine gun; mm–millimeter; MMW–millimeter wave; RF–radio frequency; SATCOM–satellite
communications; SINCGARS–single-channel ground and airborne radio system; UHF–ultrahigh
frequency; VHF–very high frequency; VINSON–[an encrypted UHF/VHF communications system]
AH-64D/E

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

3-19

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 4
Communications
The basic requirement of combat communications is to provide a rapid, reliable, and
secure interchange of information. Communications are vital to mission success. This
chapter helps the Ranger squad and platoon maintain effective communications and
correct any radio antenna problems. It also discusses military radio communications
equipment and automated net control devices.

EQUIPMENT
4-1. Paragraphs 4-1 through 4-4 discuss military radio communications equipment and automated net control
devices. Each military radio has a receiver and transmitter. Rangers use several different types of radios. (See
table 4-1.) Radios vary from high frequency, very high frequency, ultrahigh frequency, to tactical satellite.
Table 4-1. Characteristics of military radios
CHARACTERISTICS

AN/PRC-148

ASIP

Description

Multiband, interteam or intrateam radio

Multiband, multi-mission manpack

UHF

Yes

No

Power Output

Up to 5 watts

Up to 10 watts

Battery
Requirements

Rechargeable lithium ion
(included with the radio)

Any of BB-390, BB-2590, BB-590, BB-5590

Scanning

10 user-programmed nets
(TACSAT or LOS frequencies)

Four channels in FM mode

LOS AM/FM

Yes

Yes

Commercial

Yes

No

Optional Internal

No

Yes

TACSAT

No

No

DAGR

No

No

Frequency Range

Data Transmission

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

4-1

Chapter 4
Table 4-1. Characteristics of military radios (continued)
CHARACTERISTICS

AN/PRC-148

ASIP

Optional Internal
Dimensions and
Weight

2.7 x 7.8 x 1.5 inches
(6.9 x 19.8 x 3.8 centimeters)

3.4 x 5.3 x 10.2 inches
(8.6 x 13.5 x 25.9 centimeters)

2.2 pounds (1 kilogram) with battery

7.7 pounds (3.5 kilograms) without battery

Disadvantages

Lower power output than AN/PRC-117F(c)
and AN/PRC-152

Lower power output than AN/PRC-117F(c),
Limited frequency range,
Inability to communicate with USAF aircraft

Immersion Depth

2 to 20 meters (7 to 66 feet)

1 meter (3 feet)

SA Reporting
Capability

With remote control unit

With optional internal GPS

Special Features

Ship-to-shore, ground-to-ground, air-to-ground

Does not apply

LOS – open to slightly rolling terrain,
LOS – open to slightly rolling terrain
TACSAT – any terrain
Legend: AM–amplitude modulation; ASIP–advanced system improvement program; DAGR–defense
advanced GPS receiver; FM–frequency modulation; GPS–Global Positioning System; LOS–line of sight;
SA–situational awareness; TACSAT–tactical satellite; UHF–ultrahigh frequency; USAF–United States
Air Force; x–by
Terrain Restrictions

4-2. Knowing each radio’s capabilities is crucial in planning and requesting the most reliable and effective
communications equipment for a particular mission. Military operations use four primary frequency ranges.
MANPACK RADIO ASSEMBLY (AN/PRC-119F)
4-3. To assemble a manpack radio, first check and install a battery. Next, follow these steps to position the
antenna, set up the handset, set presets and frequencies, and scan.
a. Inspect the battery box for dirt or damage.
b. Stand the radio on its side with the battery cover facing up.
c. Check the battery life condition (rechargeable BB-390 batteries).
d. Place the battery in the box.
e. Close and latch the battery cover.
f. Return the radio to its upright position.
g. If the battery is in used condition, enter the battery life condition into the radio.
(1) Set FCTN (function) to LD (load).
(2) Press BAT (battery) and then CLR (clear).
(3) Enter the number recorded on the side of the battery.
(4) Press STO (store).
(5) Set FCTN to SQ ON (squelch on).
4-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Communications
h. Inspect and position the antenna.
(1) Inspect the whip antenna connector on the antenna and on the radio for damage.
(2) Screw the whip antenna into the base.
(3) Hand-tighten.
(4) Carefully mate the antenna base with the RT ANT (radio transmitter antenna) connector.
(5) Hand-tighten.
(6) Position the antenna as necessary by bending the gooseneck.
Note. Keep the antenna as straight as possible. When the antenna is bent to a horizontal position,
the radio likely requires turning before it can receive or transmit messages.
i. Set up the handset.
(1) Inspect the handset for damage.
(2) Push the handset connector onto the AUD/DATA (audio/data) connector and twist clockwise to
lock in place.
j. Pack.
(1) Place the RT (radio transmitter) in the field pack with the antenna on the left shoulder.
(2) Fold the top flap of the field pack over the RT and secure the flap to the field pack using straps and
buckles.
k. Set presets.
(1) CHAN (channel): 1.
(2) MODE: SC (single channel).
(3) RF PWR (radio frequency power): HI (high).
(4) VOL (volume): mid-range.
(5) DIM (dimensions): full clockwise.
(6) FCTN: LD.
(7) DATA RATE: OFF.
l. Set single channel loading frequencies.
(1) Obtain Ranger signal operating instructions.
(2) Set FCTN: LD.
(3) Set MODE: SC.
(4) Set CHAN: MAN, CUE (manual cue). Or, set the channel (1 through 6) to that at which the
frequency is stored.
(5) Press FREQ (frequency). The display shows 000001, or the frequency RT is currently turned on.
(6) Press CLR. The display shows five lines.
(7) Enter the number of the new frequency. To correct a mistake, press CLR.
(8) Press STO. The display blinks.
(9) Set FCTN: SQ ON.
m. Clear frequencies.
(1) Set MODE: SC.
(2) Set CHAN: MAN, CUE. Or, set the channel (1 through 6) to that at which the frequency is to be
stored.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

4-3

Chapter 4
(3) Press FREQ.
(4) Press CLR.
(5) Press LOAD, STO.
(6) Set FCTN: SQ ON.
n. Scan multiple frequencies:
(1) Load all desired frequencies using step l (Set single channel loading frequencies).
(2) Set CHAN: CUE.
(3) Set SC: FH (frequency hop).
(4) Set FCTN: SQ ON.
(5) Press STO. SCAN displays.
(6) Press the number 8 to scan more than one frequency.
BASIC TROUBLESHOOTING
4-4. Basic troubleshooting skills are necessary for correcting the simple communications problems that occur
during a mission. The ability to troubleshoot quickly often makes the difference between mission success and
failure.
a. Check radio settings.
(1) Radio frequency: Load the proper frequency.
(2) Set power output: HIGH.
(3) Time when using frequency hop: Reset time.
(4) Cryptographic (crypto) fill when using cipher text: Reload cryptographic fill from the automated
net control device.
(5) Position control knob: ON.
b. Check radio assembly and battery.
(1) Check the antenna fitting and attach a long whip or field-expedient antenna.
(2) Check the hand-mike fitting for clean contacts and proper securement of the fitting to the radio.
(3) Check the battery and install a fresh one as appropriate.
c. With line of sight radios, moving to higher ground is often necessary to make radio contact, especially
in densely vegetated or uneven terrain.

ANTENNAS
4-5. Paragraphs 4-5 through 4-21 discuss repair techniques, construction and adjustment, field-expedient
antennas, antenna length and orientation, and improving marginal communications. Antennas are sometimes
broken or damaged, causing communications degradation or failure. When a spare antenna is available, replace
the bad one.
4-6. When there is no spare, the squad or platoon sometimes constructs an emergency antenna. The following
suggestions are ways to repair antennas and antenna supports and to construct and adjust emergency antennas.

4-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Communications

DANGER
Contact with the radiating antenna of a
medium-power or high-power radio transmitter can
result in personnel death or serious injury. Turn off
the radio transmitter while adjusting the antenna.

WHIP AND WIRE ANTENNAS
4-7. When a whip antenna breaks in two, connect the broken part to the part attached to the base by joining the
sections. To restore the antenna to its original length, add a piece of wire of nearly the same length as the missing
part of the whip. Lash the pole support securely to both sections of the antenna. Thoroughly clean the sections
before connecting them to the pole support to ensure good contact. Whenever possible, solder the connections.
4-8. The emergency repair of a wire antenna sometimes involves the repair or replacement of the wire serving
as the antenna or transmission line. Other times, it involves the repair or replacement of the antenna support
assembly. When wires of an antenna are broken, the antenna is repairable by reconnecting the broken wires. To
do so, lower the antenna to the ground, clean the ends of the wires, and twist the wires together. Whenever
possible, solder the connection.
4-9. When the antenna receives damage beyond repair, construct a new one. The lengths of the substitute
antenna wires must be the same lengths as the originals. Antenna supports may also require repair or replacement
in this situation. Any substitute serves for the damaged support, provided it is insulated and strong enough.
4-10. When the radiating element is not properly insulated, the field antennas have the potential to short to the
ground and no longer work. Many common items make good field-expedient insulators. The best insulators are
plastic or glass. Plastic spoons, buttons, bottle necks, and plastic bags make good insulators. Although wood
and rope are less effective insulators, they are better than nothing. The radiating element (the antenna wire)
touches only this supporting (nonconductive) insulator and the antenna terminal. Otherwise, it remains
physically separate from everything else.
CONSTRUCTION AND ADJUSTMENT
4-11. There are specific methods for constructing and adjusting antennas. The best wire for antennas is made of
copper or aluminum. However, in an emergency, any available wire serves the purpose. The exact length of
most antennas is critical. The emergency antenna must be the same length as the original antenna.
4-12. Antennas usually survive heavy windstorms with tree trunks or strong branches to support them. To keep
the antenna tight and from breaking or stretching when the trees sway, attach a spring or old inner tube to one
end of the antenna. Another technique is to pass a rope through a pulley or eyehook, attach the rope to the end
of the antenna, and heavily weight the rope to keep the antenna tight. To ensure the rope or wire guidelines do
not interfere with the operation of the antenna, cut the wire into several short lengths and connect the pieces
with insulators.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

4-5

Chapter 4
4-13. An improvised antenna often changes the performance of a radio set. A distant station is useful when
testing the antenna. When the signal from this station is strong, this indicates the antenna is operating
satisfactorily. When the signal is weak, adjustments to the height and length of the antenna and the transmission
line maximize their capacity to receive the strongest signal at a given setting on the volume control of the
receiver. This is the best method of tuning an antenna when transmission is dangerous or forbidden.
4-14. Some radio sets allow the use of the transmitter to adjust the antenna by setting the controls of the
transmitter to normal and then tuning the system through adjustments to the antenna height and length and the
transmission line length. This process obtains the best transmission output.
EXPEDIENT 292-TYPE ANTENNA
4-15. Originally developed for use in the jungle, these antennas improve communications with proper use. Their
weight and bulk render them impractical for most squad or platoon operations. Units sometimes carry just the
masthead and antenna sections and mount them onto wood poles or trees. Alternatively, units construct an
expedient version with any insulated wire and other available material. For example, almost any plastic, glass,
or rubber items serve as insulators. When these are unavailable, dry wood works.
4-16. The following steps lay out the process of constructing an expedient antenna.
a. At the radio set, remove about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) of insulation from each end of the wire.
b. Connect the ends to the positive side of the cobra head connector such that the connections are tight or
secure.
c. Set up the correct frequency, turn on the set, and proceed with communications.
Note. Use the below planning considerations to determine the length of the elements (one radiating
wire and three ground plane wires) for the desired frequency. Cut these elements from claymore
mine wire or similar wire. The heavier the gauge, the better, but insulated copper core wire works
best.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.

Cut spacing sticks to the same length as the ground plane wires.
Place the sticks in a triangle and tie their ends together with wire, tape, or rope.
Attach an insulator to each corner and one end of each ground plane wire to each insulator.
Bring the loose ends of the ground plane wires together, attach them to an insulator, and tie securely.
Strip about 3 inches (7.5 centimeters) of insulation from each wire and twist them together.
Tie one end of the radiating element wire to the other side of insulator and the other end to another
insulator.
j. Strip about 3 inches (7.5 centimeters) of insulation from the radiating element.
k. Cut enough wire to reach from the proposed location of the antenna to the radio set.
Note. Keep this line as short as possible because excess length reduces the efficiency of the system.
l. Tie a knot at each end to identify it as the hot lead.
4-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Communications
m. Remove insulation from the hot wire and tie it to the radiating element wire at insulator.
n. Remove insulation from the other wire and attach it to the bare ground plane element wires at insulator.
o. Tape all connections and do not allow the radiating element wire to touch the ground plane wires.
p. Attach a rope to the insulator on the free end of the radiating element and toss the rope over the
branches of a tree.
q. Pull the antenna as high as possible, keeping the lead-in routed down through the triangle.
r. Secure the rope to hold the antenna in place.
ANTENNA LENGTH-PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
4-17. The length of an antenna is considered in the construction of field expedients. At a minimum, a calculation
of the appropriate length of a field-expedient antenna factors a quarter of the frequency wavelength. Another
important factor in line of sight communications is the height of the antenna in relation to the receiving station.
The higher the antenna, the greater the range the radio transmission has.
4-18. Terrain and curvature of the Earth affect line of sight communications by absorbing very high frequency
and ultrahigh frequency communications into the Earth’s surface. This is overcome by increasing antenna
height, power output, and radio frequency. Since radio frequencies are predesignated and power output is limited
to the capabilities of the radio set, manipulating the two variables antenna length and height tends to increase
radio communication range. Using the following formulas, it is possible to plan for the use of field-expedient
antennas, determine the best location to gain and maintain communication, and plan for communication
windows as necessary.
4-19. The following equation calculates the physical length of an antenna in feet. It gives the antenna length in
feet for a 1/4-wavelength of the frequency. To determine the antenna length in feet for a full wavelength antenna,
multiply the antenna length by 4.

X = 234/frequency (freq)
(X = the length of the antenna in feet; freq = the radio frequency used)
EXAMPLE:
234/38.950 = 6.01 feet (1/4-wavelength antenna)
6.01 feet x 2 = 12.02 feet (1/2-wavelength antenna)
6.01 feet x 4 = 24.04 feet (full-wavelength antenna)
4-20. The curvature of the Earth allows a person standing 5 feet, 7 inches (170 centimeters) tall and looking
across a flat surface to see objects approximately 4.7 kilometers (2.9 miles) in the distance. (See figure 4-1 on
page 4-8.) Anything beyond this is below the horizon (dead space). To see beyond that distance, the person
moves to a higher elevation.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

4-7

Chapter 4

Figure 4-1. Curvature of the Earth
4-21. Line of sight communications are subject to this same principle. For this form of communication, when
on low ground such as in a valley, draw, or depression, antenna height is taller, and when on high ground,
antenna height is shorter. The following formula calculates the requisite antenna height for a given distance and
computes an appropriate antenna height to compensate for the curvature of the Earth.
X = 234/frequency (freq)
(X = the length of the antenna in feet; freq = the radio frequency used)
Distance in kilometers (dkm) from receiving station = square root of (12.7 x Am)
where Am is the antenna height in meters
EXAMPLE:
Known height: dkm = √(12.7 x Am)
dkm = √(12.7 x 1.7m)
or
Unknown height: Am = 0.07874 x (dkm)²
Am = 0.07874 x (4.7km)²

4-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 5
Demolitions
This chapter introduces Rangers to the characteristics of explosives, initiation systems,
modernized demolition initiator (MDI) components, detonation systems, and safety
considerations. (See TM 3-34.82 for information on demolition.)

EXPLOSIVES
5-1. Low explosives have a detonating velocity of up to 1,300 feet per second, which produces a pushing or
shoving effect. HEs have a detonating velocity of 3,280 to 27,888 feet per second, which produces a shattering
effect. Table 5-1 provides some information on explosives of common use to Rangers for demolition.
Table 5-1. Characteristics of U.S. demolition explosives
DETONATION
VELOCITY
NAME

APPLICATIONS

M/S

FT/S

RE
FACTOR

FUME
TOXICITY

WATER
RESISTANCE

PETN

Det cord blasting
caps demolition
charges

8,300

27,200

1.66

Slight

Excellent

RDX

Blasting caps
composition
explosive

8,350

27,400

1.60

Moderate

Excellent

Composition
C-4 (M112)

Cutting and
breaching charges

8,040

26,400

1.34

Slight

Excellent

Priming demolition
6,100 to
20,000 to
1.66
Slight
Excellent
charge
7,300
24,000
Note: TNT = 1.00 relative effectiveness
Legend: det cord–detonating cord; FT/S–feet per second; M/S–meters per seconds;
PETN–pentaerythritol tetranitrate; RDX–Royal Demolition Explosive (hexahydrotrinitrotriazine);
RE–relative effectiveness; TNT–trinitrotoluene
Det cord

INITIATING (PRIMING) SYSTEMS
5-2. The best way to prime demolition systems is with MDIs. These are blasting caps attached to various
lengths of time fuze or shock tube. (See figure 5-1 on page 5-3 for a technique for cutting shock tube to length.)
Using MDIs with a fuze igniter and detonating cord creates many firing systems. In the absence of MDIs,
field-expedient methods are useful.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

5-1

Chapter 5
5-3. A shock tube is a thin, plastic tube of extruded polymer with a layer of special explosive material on the
interior surface. Explosive material propagates a detonation wave that moves along the shock tube to a
factory-crimped and -sealed blasting cap. Detonation is normally contained within the plastic tubing. However,
shock tubes can burn skin when hand-held. Shock tubes have a few notable advantages:
• They are extremely reliable.
• They offer instant electric initiation, and they also prevent radio transmitters, static electricity, and the
like from accidentally causing an initiation.
• They are extendable by using leftover sections from previous operations.
5-4. Five types of MDI blasting caps are available to replace the M6 electric and M7 nonelectric blasting cap.
Three are high strength, and two are low strength. High strength blasting caps prime all standard military
explosives including detonating cord and initiate the shock tube for other MDI blasting caps. Details regarding
the five types follow.
a. M11 (high strength).
(1) Factory-crimped to 30 feet (about 9 meters) of shock tube.
(2) An attached, movable J-hook for quick and easy attachment to a detonating cord.
(3) A red flag attached 1 meter (3 feet) from the blasting cap and a yellow flag attached
2 meters (6.5 feet) from the blasting cap.
b. M14 (high strength).
(1) Factory-crimped to 7.5 feet (about 2.25 meters) of time fuze.
(2) Initiation possible by a fuze igniter or match.
(3) About a 5-minute burn time for the total length.
(4) Yellow band indicators of calibrated 1-minute time intervals.
c. M15 (high strength).
(1) Two blasting caps factory-crimped to 70 feet (21.3 meters) of shock tube.
(2) Factory-crimped to 7.5 feet (about 2.25 meters) of time fuze.
(3) Delay elements that allow for staged detonations.
(4) Low strength blasting caps useful as relay devices to transmit a shock tube detonation impulse from
an initiator to a high strength blasting cap.
d. M12 (low strength): factory-crimped to 500 feet (about 152.5 meters) of shock tube on a cardboard
spool.
e. M13 (low strength): factory-crimped to 1,000 feet (304.8 meters) of shock tube.
Note. High altitudes and colder temperatures increase burn time.

5-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Demolitions

Figure 5-1. Technique for cutting shock tube

DETONATION (FIRING) SYSTEMS
5-5. The two types of firing systems are MDI alone or MDI plus a detonating cord. An MDI-alone firing system
uses MDI components to construct the initiation set, transmission, and branch lines, and MDI blasting caps
prime the explosive charges. Figure 5-2 on page 5-4 depicts some common firing system components. The
following steps lay out the process of constructing the charge.
a. Emplace and secure an explosive charge such as C4, trinitrotoluene, or a cratering charge on the target.
b. Place a sandbag or other easily identifiable marker over the M11, M14, or M15 blasting cap.
c. Connect to an M12 or M13 transmission line as desired.
d. Connect a blasting cap with shock tube to an M14 cap with time fuze. (See figure 5-3 on page 5-5 for
a technique for attaching shock tube, in this case to M81s.) Cut the time blasting fuze to the desired
delay time.
e. Prime the explosive charge by inserting the blasting cap into the charge.
f. Visually inspect the firing system for possible misfire indicators such as cracks, bulges, or corrosion.
g. Return to the firing point and secure a fuze igniter to the cut end of the time fuze. Figure 5-4 on page 5-6
depicts a dual initiating system, and figure 5-5 on page 5-7 depicts a British J initiating system.
h. Remove the safety cotter pin from the igniter’s body.
i. Actuate the charge by grasping the igniter body with one hand while sharply pulling the pull ring.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

5-3

Chapter 5

Figure 5-2. Firing system components

5-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Demolitions

Figure 5-3. Technique for attaching shock tube to M81s

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

5-5

Chapter 5

Figure 5-4. Dual initiating system

5-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Demolitions

Figure 5-5. British J initiating system

CHARGING
5-6. The demolitions effects simulator is the only charge constructed in Ranger School. Figure 5-6 on page 5-8
depicts a basic constructed demolitions effects simulator charge system, and figure 5-7 on page 5-8 depicts a
demolitions effects simulator charge with a dual initiating system. Figures 5-8 and 5-9, on pages 5-9 and 5-10
respectively, provide examples of material usage in the construction. Demolitions effects simulator charges
share some common components:
• Two MN08/M81 fuze ignitors.
• Two MN06/M14 time fuzes.
• 3 feet of M456 detonating cord type-1.
• Cardboard cutout.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

5-7

Chapter 5

Figure 5-6. Demolitions effects simulator charge – constructed system

Figure 5-7. Dual initiated demolitions effects simulator charge

5-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Demolitions

Figure 5-8. Demolitions effects simulator charge with uli knot and 12 to 18 inches of detonating
cord

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

5-9

Chapter 5

Figure 5-9. Demolitions effects simulator charge cardboard cutout dimensions

SAFETY
5-7. MDI is not recommended for belowground use except in quarry operations with water-gel or slurry
explosives. Detonating cord is useful when it is necessary to bury primed charges. The M15 blasting cap is not
for use with M1 dynamite. The M15 delay blasting cap is for use solely with water-gel or slurry explosives.
5-8. Do not handle misfires downrange until the requisite 30-minute waiting period elapses for both primary
and secondary initiation systems and until the completion of all other safety precautions.
5-9. Never yank or pull hard on the shock tube. Doing so can actuate the blasting cap. Do not dispose of used
shock tubes by burning due to the potential release of toxic fumes from burning plastic.
5-10. Always use protective equipment when handling demolitions. Minimum protection consists of leather
gloves, ballistic eye protection, and a helmet.
5-11. All initiation systems and demolition charges have markings of the date of construction, minimum safe
distance, and name of the person who constructed the charge.
5-12. When cutting detonating cord or time fuze, place a piece of 100 miles per hour (mph) tape over the cut
end to prevent the explosive from falling out or moisture getting in, both of which can cause a misfire.
5-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 6
Movement
So that Rangers can survive in the battlespace, their leaders enforce stealth, dispersion,
and security in all tactical movements. The leader is skilled in all movement techniques.
(See ATP 3-21.8 for information on movement techniques.)

MOVEMENT FORMATIONS
6-1. Movement formations include elements and Rangers arranged in relation to each other. Fire teams, squads,
and platoons use several formations. Formations give the leader control based on an METT-TC (I) analysis.
Leaders position themselves where they can best command and direct the formations, which figure 6-1 depicts.
Typical formations are the line, vee, echelon, diamond, wedge, and file.

Figure 6-1. Formation types
6-2. Formations allow the fire TL to lead by example. (Follow me and do as I do!) The leader remains visible
to all the Rangers in the team.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-1

Chapter 6
6-3. Squad formations reflect fire team formations. Squad formations are very similar, but with more Rangers.
Squads operate in lines and files similarly to fire teams. When squads operate in wedges or echelon, the fire
teams use those formations and simply arrange themselves in a column or with one team behind the other.
Squads also use the vee, wherein one team forms the lines of the vee with the SL at the front (or the point of the
vee) for mission command. Platoons use the same formations as squads. When the unit operates as a platoon,
the PL carefully selects the location for the machine guns in the movement formation.

MOVEMENT TECHNIQUES
6-4. The selection of a movement technique is based on the likelihood of enemy contact and the relative need
for speed. Specifically, the factors to consider include control, dispersion, speed, and security. Movement
techniques are neither fixed nor are they formations. Instead, movement techniques are distinguished by a set of
criteria such as the distances between individual Rangers and between teams or squads.
6-5. Movement techniques are not fixed formations. The distances between Soldiers, teams, and squads vary
based on mission, enemy, terrain, visibility, and any other factor that affects control. There are three movement
techniques: traveling, traveling overwatch, and bounding overwatch. (See table 6-1.) Individual movement
techniques include high and low crawl and 3- to 5-second rushes from one covered position to another.
Table 6-1. Characteristics of movement techniques

CHARACTERISTICS

MOVEMENT
TECHNIQUES

WHEN NORMALLY
USED

Control

Dispersion

Speed

Traveling

Contact not likely

More

Less

Fast

Less

Traveling Overwatch

Contact possible

Less

More

Slow

More

Bounding Overwatch

Contact expected

Most

Most

Slowest

Most

Security

6-6. These movement techniques enable leaders to conduct actions on contact and tactical mission tasks and to
make natural transitions to fire and movement. When analyzing the situation, leaders know some enemy
positions. However, most of the time, enemy positions exist as templated positions only. Templated positions
are the leader’s best guess from analyzing the terrain and an existing knowledge of the enemy. Throughout the
operation, leaders continuously try to confirm or deny both the known positions as well as the likely positions.
6-7. Movement techniques vary depending on the METT-TC (I) variables. What remains constant is the
visibility of a fire TL to all the Rangers in the team. Likewise, the lead SL remains visible to the PL. Leaders
control movement with hand and arm signals, and they use radios only when necessary. Leaders match the
movement technique to the situation as follows.
a. Traveling. Enemy contact is not likely, but speed is necessary. The target distance between Rangers is
10 meters (33 feet) and 20 meters (66 feet) between squads. Some characteristics are: (1) more control
than traveling overwatch but less control than bounding overwatch; (2) minimum dispersion;
(3) maximum speed; (4) minimum security.
b. Traveling overwatch. Enemy contact is possible. This is the most often used movement technique. The
target distance between Rangers is 20 meters (66 feet) and 50 meters (164 feet) between teams. Leaders
keep in mind the following considerations for this technique.
6-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement
(1) Only the lead squad uses traveling overwatch. However, in cases targeting greater dispersion, all
squads may use it.
(2) In other formations, all squads use traveling overwatch unless the PL specifies not to do so.
Traveling overwatch offers good control, dispersion, speed, and security forward.
(3) The lead squad is far enough ahead of the rest of the platoon to detect or engage any enemy before
the enemy observes or fires on the main body. However, the lead squad stays between
50 and 100 meters (164 to 328 feet) in front of the platoon to enable the platoon’s support with
small arms fire. The distance depends on terrain, vegetation, and light and weather conditions.
c. Bounding overwatch. Enemy contact is likely or the unit is crossing a danger area. Both squads and
platoons have bounding and overwatch elements. The bounding element moves while the other one
occupies a position from which it overwatches by fire the bounding element’s route. The bounding
element remains within firing range of the overwatching element at all times. Leaders keep in mind
the following considerations for this technique.
(1) Characteristics. Bounding overwatch offers maximum control, dispersion, and security with
minimum speed.
(2) Types of bounds.
(a) Successive bounds. One element moves to a position, and then, the overwatching element
moves to a position generally on the same line with the first element.
(b) Alternating bounds. One element moves into position, and then, the overwatching element
moves to a position in front of the first element.
(3) Length. The length of a bound depends on the terrain, visibility, and control.
(4) Instructions. Before a bound, the leader gives the following instructions to subordinates.
(a) Direction of the enemy if known.
(b) Position of the overwatch elements.
(c) Next overwatch position.
(d) Route of the bounding element.
(e) What to do after the bounding element reaches the next position.
(f) How the elements receive follow-on orders.
(5) Squad bounding overwatch (see figure 6-2 on page 6-4). Rangers leave about 20 meters (66 feet)
between themselves. The distance between teams and squads varies.
(6) Platoon bounding overwatch. When platoons use bounding overwatch (see figure 6-3 on page 6-5),
one squad bounds, a second squad overwatches, and a third awaits orders. Rangers leave about
20 meters (66 feet) between them. The distance between teams and squads varies. FOs stay with
the overwatching squad to call for fire. PLs normally stay with the overwatching squad, which uses
machine guns and attached weapons to support the bounding squad. Another technique is to have
one squad use bounding overwatch while the other two use traveling or traveling overwatch. The
following considerations inform a leader’s decision on where to move the bounding element.
(a) Enemy’s likely action.
(b) Mission.
(c) Routes to the next overwatch position.
(d) Weapon ranges of the overwatching unit.
(e) Responsiveness of the rest of the unit.
(f) Fields of fire at the next overwatch position.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-3

Chapter 6

Figure 6-2. Example of squad bounding overwatch

6-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement

Figure 6-3. Example of platoon bounding overwatch
STANDARDS
6-8. A unit moves on a designated route or arrives at a specified location in accordance with the OPORD,
maintaining accountability of all assigned and attached personnel. A unit uses the movement formation and
technique ordered by the leader, which is based on the METT-TC (I) variables. Leaders remain oriented (within
200 meters [219 yards]) and follow a planned route unless METT-TC (I) variables dictate otherwise.
6-9. During movement, the unit maintains 360-degree security and remains 100-percent alert. During halts, the
unit maintains 360-degree security and remains at least 75-percent alert. Whenever the unit makes contact with
the enemy, it does so with the smallest element possible. The unit uses control measures during movement, such
as headcounts, rally points, or phase lines.
FUNDAMENTALS
6-10. Mission accomplishment depends on successful land navigation. The patrol uses stealth and vigilance to
avoid chance contact. Each patrol has designated primary and alternate compass and pace Soldiers. All leaders
except fire TLs move inside their formations for best control over the platoon.
Note. The point person, whose sole responsibility is forward security for the element, never performs
the compass or pace duties.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-5

Chapter 6
6-11. Patrols use stealth and cover and concealment of the terrain to their maximum advantages. Whenever
possible, the patrol moves during limited visibility to maximize the technological advantages of night-vision
devices (NVDs) and hinder the enemy’s ability to detect the patrol. They exploit the enemy’s weaknesses and
try to time movements to coincide with other operations that distract the enemy.
6-12. The patrol continues to use active and passive security measures. The leader assigns subunit
responsibilities for security in danger areas, PBs, and the objective area. The leader plans fire support such as
mortars, artillery, tactical air, attack helicopter, and naval gunfire.
6-13. The enemy threat and terrain determine which one of the three movement techniques is appropriate to use.
Fire teams maintain visual contact, but enough distance remains between them that the entire patrol would not
become engaged if it made contact. Fire teams spread their formations appropriately to gain better observation
to the flanks. Though widely spaced, Rangers retain their relative positions in their wedge formations and follow
their TLs. Only extreme situations call for the file formation. The lead squad secures the front and is responsible
for navigation. For a long movement, the PL may rotate lead squad responsibilities. The fire team or squad in
the rear is charged with rear security. Leaders vary movement techniques to meet the changing situation.
6-14. The patrol achieves 360-degree security, high and low. Within a fire team, squad, and so on, the leader
assigns appropriate sectors of fire to subordinates. This ensures the battlespace is covered, including trees,
multistoried structures, tunnels, sewers, and ditches.
TACTICAL MARCHES
6-15. Platoons conduct two types of marches with the company: foot marches and motor (road) marches. A foot
march is successful when troops arrive at the destination at the prescribed time, physically able to execute their
tactical mission.
6-16. To meet the standard, the unit crosses the start point and RP at the times specified in the order and follows
the prescribed route, rate of march, and interval without deviation unless enemy or higher HQ actions require it.
The fundamentals of tactical marches include effective control, detailed planning, and rehearsals. Leaders keep
in mind the following considerations.
a. METT-TC (I) variables.
(1) Mission—task and purpose.
(2) Enemy—intentions, capabilities, and COA(s).
(3) Terrain and weather—road condition, trafficability, and visibility.
(4) Troops and support—condition of Rangers and their loads and the number and types of weapons
and radios.
(5) Time—start time, release time, rate of march, and time available.
(6) Civilians—movement through populated areas, refugees, and operations security.
(7) Information—synergize all the variables to create actionable intelligence.
b. Task organization.
(1) Security—advance and trail teams.
(2) Main body—the two remaining line squads and weapons squad.
(3) HQ mission command.
(4) Control measures.
c. Control measures.
6-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement
(1) Start point and RP—given by higher HQ.
(2) Checkpoints. At checkpoints, report to higher HQ to remain oriented.
(3) Rally or rendezvous points—useful when elements become separated.
(4) Locations of leaders—where they can best control their elements.
(5) Communications plan—locations of radios, frequencies, call signs, and operation schedules.
(6) Dispersion between Rangers.
(a) 3 to 5 meters (10 to 16 feet) by day.
(b) 1 to 3 meters (3 to 10 feet) by night.
d. A march order is issued as an OPORD or FRAGORD or as an annex to either type of order. (An
operational overlay or strip map is useful for this.) The march order includes the following information.
(1) Formations and order of movement.
(2) Route of march, assembly area, start point, RP, rally points, checkpoints, and break or halt points.
(3) Start point time, RP time, and rate of march.
(4) March interval for squads, teams, and individuals.
(5) Actions on enemy contact—air and ground.
(6) Actions at halts.
(7) Detailed plan of fire support for the march.
(8) Water supply plan.
(9) Medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) plan.
6-17. Platoons comprise several Rangers fulfilling different positions and responsibilities. They include the PL,
PSG, SLs, security squad, assault squads, medic, and individuals. The details of their duties before, during, and
after the movement follow.
a. PL.
(1) Before: issues WARNORD, OPORD, or FRAGORD; inspects and supervises movement
preparations.
(2) During: ensures the unit makes its movement time, maintains the interval, and remains oriented;
maintains security; checks the condition of the Rangers; spot-checks water discipline and field
sanitation.
(3) After: ensures the Rangers are prepared to accomplish their mission; supervises SLs; ensures the
Rangers receive any necessary medical coverage.
b. PSG.
(1) Before: helps the PL; makes recommendations; enforces uniform and packing lists; obtains
accountability of the Rangers prior to the start point time.
(2) During: controls stragglers; assists the PL in maintaining the proper interval and security.
(3) At halts: maintains accountability; enforces security and the welfare of the Soldiers; enforces field
sanitation and litter discipline; performs preventive medicine; confirms the headcount prior to
leaving the halt.
(4) After: coordinates for water, rations, and medical supplies; recovers any casualties.
c. SLs.
(1) Before: provide detailed instruction to the TLs; inspect boots and socks for serviceability and
proper fit; check for adjustment of equipment, full canteens, and equal distribution of loads.
(2) During: control squad; maintain the proper interval between the Rangers and the equipment;
enforce security; remain oriented.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-7

Chapter 6

d.

e.

f.
g.
h.

(3) At halts: ensure the maintaining of security; provide the Rangers with water resupply as detailed;
physically check the squad members; ensure the squad drinks water and changes socks as
appropriate and rotates heavy equipment. (Units plan the latter in detail to avoid confusion before,
during, and after halts.)
(4) After: occupy squad sector assembly area; conduct a foot inspection and report the condition of the
Soldiers to the PL; prepare them to accomplish the mission.
Security squad.
(1) Serves as point element for platoon.
(2) Reconnoiters the route to the start point.
(3) Calls in checkpoints and provides frontal security and early warning.
(4) Maintains rate of march, moving 10 to 20 meters (33 to 66 feet) in front of the main body.
(5) The trail team provides rear security, moving 10 to 20 meters (33 to 66 feet) behind the main body.
Assault squads.
(1) Provide left, right, and rear security for the platoon.
(2) Prepare to provide additional combat power to the security squad in the scenario of their receiving
contact and move 10 to 20 meters (33 to 66 feet) behind the security squad.
FO/radio-telephone operator (RTO).
(1) Maintains constant communication with higher HQ, moves with the PL, and sends all reports.
(2) Builds any necessary field-expedient antennas.
Medic.
(1) Assesses and treats march casualties.
(2) Advises the chain of command on the evacuation and transportation of casualties.
Individuals.
(1) Maintain the interval and follow the TL’s example.
(2) Relay hand and arm signals.
(3) Remain alert during movement and at halts.

MOVEMENT DURING LIMITED VISIBILITY CONDITIONS
6-18. During hours of limited visibility, the platoon uses surveillance, target acquisition, and night observation
devices to enhance effectiveness. Leaders retain their abilities to control, navigate, maintain security, and move
during limited visibility.
6-19. When visibility is poor, methods that aid in control include moving leaders closer to the front, reducing
the platoon speed, and using luminescent tape on equipment. Leaders also reduce the intervals between Soldiers
and elements and execute headcounts.
6-20. While navigating during limited visibility, the unit uses the same techniques as in daylight, but leaders
exercise more care to keep the patrol oriented. To maintain security, leaders enforce strict noise and light
disciplines, and units use radio-listening silence and camouflage. Using the terrain to avoid detection by enemy
surveillance or NVDs, Rangers make frequent halts to stop, look, listen, and smell. Whenever possible, they
mask the sounds of movement. Rain, wind, and flowing water disguise movement sounds very efficiently.
6-21. Leaders plan detail actions to be taken at rally points. All elements maintain communications at all times.
There are two techniques for actions at rally points:

6-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement
•
•

Minimum force — Patrol members assemble at the rally point, and the senior leader assumes
command. Upon the assembly and organization of the minimum force (designated in the OPORD), the
patrol continues the mission.
Time available — The senior leader determines whether the patrol has enough time remaining to
accomplish the mission.

6-22. During halts, the unit posts security and covers all approaches into the sector with key weapons. Leaders
use two types of halts with Rangers:
• Short halt — This typically takes 1 to 2 minute(s). Rangers seek immediate cover and concealment
and take a knee. Leaders assign sectors of fire.
• Long halt — This typically takes more than 2 minutes. Rangers assume the prone position behind
cover and concealment. Leaders ensure Rangers have clear fields of fire and assign sectors of fire.

DANGER AREAS
6-23. A danger area is any place on a unit’s route where the leader determines the potential exposure of the unit
to enemy observation or fire. Some examples of danger areas are open areas, roads and trails, urban terrain,
enemy positions, and natural and artificial obstacles. Units bypass danger areas whenever possible.
6-24. Standards, fundamentals, and techniques exist for crossing danger areas. Rangers take the following steps.
a. Standards.
(1) Prevent the enemy from surprising the main body.
(2) Move all personnel and equipment across the danger area.
(3) Prevent decisive engagement by the enemy.
b. Fundamentals.
(1) Designate near side and far side rally points.
(2) Secure near side, left and right flank, and rear security.
(3) Reconnoiter and secure the far side.
(4) Cross the danger area.
(5) Plan for fires on all known danger areas.
c. Techniques for crossing danger areas.
(1) Linear danger area actions for a squad (see figure 6-4 on page 6-10).
(a) The Alpha TL observes the linear danger area and sends the hand and arm signal to the SL,
who determines to bound across.
(b) The SL directs the Alpha TL to move the team across the linear danger area far enough to fit
the remainder of the squad on the far side of the linear danger area. The Bravo team moves to
the linear danger area to the right or left to provide an overwatch position prior to the Alpha
team’s crossing.
(c) The SL receives the hand and arm signal that it is safe to move the rest of the squad across.
(The Bravo team is still providing overwatch.)
(d) The SL moves with the RTO and Bravo team across the linear danger area. (A team provides
overwatch for squad missions.)
(e) The A team assumes original azimuth at the SL’s command or by hand and arm signal.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-9

Chapter 6

Figure 6-4. Examples of linear danger area actions
(2) Linear danger area actions for a platoon.
(a) The lead squad halts the platoon and signals DANGER AREA.
(b) The PL moves forward to the lead squad to confirm the danger area and then decides whether
the current location is suitable for crossing.
(c) The PL confirms the danger area or crossing site and establishes near side and far side rally
points.
(d) On the PL’s signal, the trail squad moves forward to establish left and right near side security.
6-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement
(e) Upon near side security’s establishment, the Alpha team of the lead squad, with the SL, moves
across to confirm there is enough room to fit the rest of the platoon on the far side of the linear
danger area.
(f) After stopping to conduct look, listen, and smell observations, the SL signals ALL CLEAR to
the PL. During daylight, a hand signal such as a thumbs up serves well as this signal. At night,
a tool such as an infrared or a red lens serves as a better signal.
(g) The PL then directs the Bravo team of the lead squad to bound across by team, link up with the
Alpha team of the lead squad, and pick up a half step while the rest of the platoon crosses.
(h) The PL then crosses with the RTO, FO, WSL, and one gun team.
(i) Once across, the PL signals the second squad in movement to cross.
(j) The PSG with the medic and one gun team crosses after the second squad is across, sterilizing
the central crossing site.
(k) The PSG signals the security squad to cross at their location.
(l) The PSG calls the PL via frequency modulation (FM) radio to confirm all elements are across.
(m) The PL directs the lead squad to pick up normal rate of movement.
Note. The PL plans fires on all known larger danger area crossing sites. Near side security in
overwatch sterilizes signs of the patrol.
(3) Danger area—small or open—actions (see figure 6-5 on page 6-12).
(a) The lead squad halts the platoon and signals DANGER AREA.
(b) The PL moves forward to the lead squad to confirm the danger area.
(c) The PL confirms the danger area and establishes near side and far side rally points.
(d) The PL designates the lead squad to bypass the danger area using the detour bypass method.
(e) The pace Soldier suspends the current pace count and initiates an interim pace count. The
alternate pace and compass Soldier moves forward, offsets the compass 90 degrees left or right
as designated, and moves in that direction until clear of the danger area.
(f) After moving the set distance instructed by the PL, the lead squad assumes original azimuth,
and the primary pace Soldier resumes original pace.
(g) After the open area, the alternate pace and compass Soldier offsets the compass 90 degrees left
or right and leads the platoon or squad the same distance (in meters) back to the original
azimuth.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-11

Chapter 6

Figure 6-5. Examples of crossing a small, open danger area
(4) Danger areas—series—actions. These are two or more danger areas inside an area that can be either
observed or covered by fire.
(a) Double linear danger area. Units use the linear danger area technique and cross as one.
(b) Linear or small, open danger area. Units use the bypass or contour technique. (See figure 6-5.)
(c) Linear or large, open danger area. Units use a platoon wedge formation to cross.
Note. Units cross a series of danger areas with the technique that provides the most security.

6-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement
(5) Danger area—large—actions.
(a) The lead squad halts the platoon and signals DANGER AREA.
(b) The PL moves forward with the RTO and FO to confirm the danger area.
(c) The PL confirms the danger area and establishes near and far side rally points.
(d) The PL designates the direction of movement.
(e) The PL designates any necessary change of formation to ensure security.
Note. The PL plans for all larger danger area crossing sites. Near side security in overwatch sterilizes
signs of the patrol. Before a point person steps into a danger area, the PL and FO adjust the targets
to cover the movement. When the far side of the danger area is within 250 meters (273 yards), the
PL establishes overwatch and designates the lead squad to clear a wood line on the far side.

HAND AND ARM SIGNALS
6-25. Visual signals are any means of communication that require sight and transmit prearranged messages
rapidly over short distances. The most common types of visual signals are hand and arm, flag, pyrotechnic, and
ground-to-air. Leaders of dismounted units use hand and arm signals to control the movement of individuals,
teams, and squads. Units bypass danger areas whenever possible.
6-26. Figures 6-6 through 6-18 on pages 6-14 through 6-17 demonstrate the standardized hand and arm signals
for use during patrol operations in Ranger School. Regarding these figures of hand and arm signals—
• Those signals illustrated with a single arrowhead indicate they are not continuously repeated, yet they
may be repeated at intervals until acknowledged or the desired action is executed.
• Those signals illustrated with double arrowheads are repeated continuously until acknowledged or the
desired action is taken.
• Signals are illustrated as normally seen by the viewer.
• Some signals are illustrated in oblique, right angle, or overhead views for clarity.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-13

Chapter 6

Figure 6-6. Assemble or rally signal

Figure 6-7. Join me, follow me,
or come forward signal

Figure 6-8. Enemy in sight signal

6-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement

Figure 6-9. Take cover signal

Figure 6-10. Map check signal

Figure 6-11. Halt signal

Figure 6-12. Take a knee signal

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

6-15

Chapter 6

Figure 6-13. Move to the prone signal

Figure 6-14. Pace count signal

Figure 6-15. Headcount signal

Figure 6-16. Danger area signal

6-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Movement

Figure 6-17. Freeze signal

19 September 2025

Figure 6-18. Number signals

TC 3-21.76

6-17

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 7
Patrols
Infantry platoons and squads primarily conduct two types of patrols, reconnaissance and
combat. This chapter describes the principles of patrolling, planning considerations, types
of patrols, supporting tasks, PBs, and movement to contact. In this chapter, the terms
element and team refer to the squads, fire teams, or buddy teams who perform the tasks
as described.

PRINCIPLES
7-1. Five principles govern all patrols: planning, reconnaissance, security, control, and common sense. Further
considerations for each of these principles include the following:
• Planning — Quickly make a simple plan and effectively communicate it to the lowest level. A great
plan that takes forever to complete and is poorly disseminated is not a great plan. Plan and prepare to
a realistic standard and rehearse everything.
• Reconnaissance — A Ranger leader’s responsibility is to confirm what they think they know and to
learn that which they do not already know.
• Security — Preserve the force as a whole. Every Ranger and every rifle counts; either one has the
potential to make the difference between victory and defeat.
• Control — Clarify the concept of operations and commander’s intent, coupled with disciplined
communications, to bring every Soldier and weapon available to overwhelm the enemy at the decisive
point.
• Common sense — Use all available information and good judgment to make sound, timely decisions.

PLANNING
7-2. Planning considerations common to most patrols include task organization, initial planning and
coordination, completion of the plan, and contingency planning. A patrol is a detachment sent out by a larger
unit to conduct a specific mission.
7-3. Patrols operate semi-independently and return to the main body upon completion of their missions.
Patrolling fulfills the Infantry’s primary function of finding the enemy to engage them or to report their
disposition, location, and actions. Patrols act as the eyes and ears of the larger unit and as a fist to deliver a
sharp, devastating jab. Then, they withdraw before the enemy recovers. Some associated definitions with patrols
follow:
• Patrol — sent out by a larger unit to conduct a specific combat, reconnaissance, or security mission. A
patrol’s organization is temporary and specifically matched to the immediate task. Because a patrol is
an organization, not a mission, it is not correct to speak of giving a unit the mission to patrol.
• Patrolling (or conducting a patrol) — the semi-independent operation to accomplish the patrol’s
mission. A patrol requires a specific task and purpose.
• Employment — the commander’s sending of a patrol from the main body to conduct a specific tactical
task with an associated purpose. Upon completion of that task, the patrol leader returns to the main
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-1

Chapter 7

•

•

body, reports to the commander, and describes the events that took place, the status of the patrol’s
members and equipment, and any observations that were made.
Leaders — the SL’s responsibility when an organic unit such as a rifle squad composes the patrol; an
officer’s or noncommissioned officer’s designation when mixed elements from several units compose
the patrol. This temporary title defines the leader’s role and responsibilities for that mission. The patrol
leader may designate an assistant—normally the next senior Soldier in the patrol—and any requisite
subordinate element leaders.
Size — a patrol unit is sometimes as small as a fire team. Squad- and platoon-sized patrols are normal.
For combat tasks such as a raid, the patrol sometimes comprises most of the combat elements of a rifle
company. Unlike operations in which the Infantry platoon or squad is integrated into a larger
organization, the patrol is semi-independent and relies on itself for security.

7-4. All patrols and teams share some common elements. Examples of these commonalities follow:
• Reconnaissance and surveillance (R&S) teams are normal for a zone reconnaissance but useful in any
situation in which it is impractical to separate the responsibilities of reconnaissance and security. When
these responsibilities are separate, the security element provides security at danger areas, secures the
objective rally point, isolates the objective, and supports the withdrawal of the rest of the platoon once
reconnaissance is complete. The security element sometimes has separate security teams, each with an
assigned task or sequence of tasks.
• Assault elements seize and secure the objective and protect special teams as they complete their
assigned actions on the objective.
• Security elements provide security at danger areas, secure the objective rally point, isolate the
objective, and support the withdrawal of the rest of the patrol once actions on the objective are
complete. The security element sometimes has separate security teams, each with an assigned task or
sequence of tasks.
• Support elements provide direct and indirect fire support for the unit. Direct fire includes machine
guns, medium and light antiarmor weapons, and small recoilless rifles. The available indirect fire
includes mortars, artillery, CAS, and organic M320 weapon systems.
• Demolition teams are responsible for preparing and detonating the charges to destroy designated
equipment, vehicles, or facilities on the objective.
• Enemy prisoner of war (EPW) and search teams are the assault element who provides two-Ranger
(buddy team) or four-Ranger (fire team) search teams to search bunkers, buildings, or tunnels on the
objective. These teams search the objective or kill zone for any PIR that provides the PL with an idea
of the enemy concept for future operations. Leaders may assign primary and alternate teams to ensure
enough prepared personnel are available on the objective.
• Aid and litter teams provide initial treatment and movement of casualties to the platoon’s CCP. They
are members of the same fire team or squad to ensure proper command and control.
• Breach elements conduct initial penetration of enemy obstacles to seize a foothold and allow the patrol
to enter an objective. This action typically accords with the METT-TC (I) variables.
• Reconnaissance teams reconnoiter the objective area from various vantage points once the security
teams are in position. Normally, reconnaissance teams are two-Soldier teams to reduce the possibility
of detection.

7-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
INITIAL PLANNING AND COORDINATION
7-5. Leaders plan and prepare for patrols using the TLP and estimation of the situation as described in chapter 2.
Through an estimation of the situation, leaders identify required actions on the objective (mission analysis) and
plan backward to departure from friendly lines and forward to reentry of friendly lines. Because patrolling units
act independently, they move beyond the direct fire support of the parent unit and operate forward of friendly
units. Coordination is thorough, detailed, and continuous throughout planning and preparation. PLs use
checklists to avoid omitting any items vital to the accomplishment of the mission.
7-6. Coordination with higher HQ includes intelligence, operations, and fire support. This initial coordination
is an integral part of the TLP (step 3–make a tentative plan [see table 2-1 on page 2-1]). The leader also
coordinates the unit’s patrol activities with the leaders of other units who will be patrolling in adjacent areas at
the same time.
COMPLETION OF PLAN
7-7. The PL considers specified and implied tasks while completing the plan. The PL ensures the assigning of
all specified tasks to be performed on the objective, at rally points, danger areas, security or surveillance
locations, passage lanes, and along routes. These compose the maneuver and the tasks to maneuver units
subparagraphs of the execution paragraph.
7-8. The PL also considers key travel and execution times. The leader estimates time requirements for
movement to the objective, leader’s reconnaissance of the objective, establishment of security and surveillance,
completion of all assigned tasks on the objective, and passage through friendly lines. Some planning factors
include the following:
• Movement — an average of 1 kilometer per hour (0.6 miles per hour) during daylight hours in
woodland terrain; average limited visibility of 0.5 kilometers per hour (0.3 miles per hour). Add time
for restrictive or severely restrictive terrain such as mountains, swamps, or thick vegetation.
• Leader’s reconnaissance — NLT 1.5 hours.
• Establishment of security and surveillance — one-half hour.
7-9. The leader selects primary and alternate routes to and from the objective. The return routes differ from the
routes to the objective. The PL may delegate route selection to a subordinate but is ultimately responsible for
the selected routes.
7-10. The leader considers using special signals. Such signals include hand and arm, flare, vocal, whistle, radio,
and infrared equipment. Units identify and rehearse primary and alternate signals until all Rangers know their
meanings. Leaders consider the following password systems:
• Odd number system, which works as follows:
 The leader specifies an odd number.
 The challenge is then any number less than the specified number, and the password is the addend
that, when summed with the challenge number, equals the specified number.
 For example, the specified number is seven, the challenge is three, and the password is four
(7 = 3 + 4).
• Running password, which works as follows:
 This code word alerts a unit to friendly Rangers approaching in a less than organized manner and
possibly under pressure.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-3

Chapter 7



The number of Rangers approaching follows the running password.
For example, the running password is Ranger and five friendly Rangers are approaching, so the
code word is Ranger five.

Note. The plan for maintaining communications normally follows the below order of
communications precedence list, the order in which an element moves through available
communications systems until it establishes contact with the desired distant element. The Ranger
Course standardizes the PACE plan communications systems to the following.
Primary – FM communications
Alternate – Whistle blast (a number combination such as 5 total wherein 3 blasts receive 2 in return)
Contingency – Day – Flaming rock (VS-17 signal panel tied to a rock or similar object)
Night – Infrared chemical light stick on a string of parachute cord
Emergency – Runner
7-11. Always know the location of leaders. The PL considers the locations of the PSG and other key leaders
during each phase of the mission. The PL is positioned for best control of the actions of the patrol. The PSG is
normally located with the assault element during a raid or attack to help the PL control the use of additional
assaulting squads and to assist with securing the objective. The PSG locates at the CCP to facilitate casualty
treatment and evacuation. During a reconnaissance mission, the PSG stays behind in the objective rally point to
facilitate the transfer of intelligence to the higher HQ and to control the reconnaissance element’s movement
into and out of the objective rally point.
7-12. A combat patrol collects and reports information gathered during the mission, whether related to the
combat task or not. Platoons or squads send SALUTE reports to their controlling HQ when observing enemy
activity or making contact with the enemy. It is also important for the leader to communicate timely and accurate
situation and status reports including: spot reports; status to the PL (including squad location and progress,
enemy situation, enemy KIA, and security posture); status of ammunition, casualties, and equipment to the PSG.
7-13. Unless the mission requires it, the unit avoids enemy contact. The leader’s plan addresses actions on enemy
contact at each phase of the patrol mission. The unit’s ability to continue depends on how early it makes contact,
whether the platoon breaks contact without the enemy’s detecting its subsequent direction of movement, and
whether the unit suffers any casualties from the contact. The plan addresses the handling of seriously wounded
Rangers and those KIA. The plan also addresses the handling of prisoners captured due to chance contact and
not as part of the planned mission.
7-14. The leader leaves the unit for many reasons throughout the planning, coordination, preparation, and
execution of the patrol mission. Each time the leader departs the patrol main body, the leader left in charge of
the unit receives a five-point contingency plan. The patrol leader issues additional specific guidance stating the
tasks to be accomplished under the leader left in charge. The patrol leader uses the mnemonic device GOTWA
to remember and include the going, others, time, what, and action points of the contingency plan (see table 7-1).

7-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols

Table 7-1. Going–others–time–what–action format

Acronym
Letters
G
O
T
W
A

Points the Plan
Addresses
Going
Others
Time
(Duration)
What
Action

Questions the Plan Answers
Where is the leader going?
Who is going with the leader?
How long will the element be gone? Or when will they
return?
What should happen if the leader were to fail to return?
What actions will the element and the main body
execute upon enemy contact?

7-15. The leader considers the use and location of rally points. A rally point is a place the leader designates for
a displaced unit to reassemble and reorganize. Rangers know to which rally point to move at each phase of the
patrol mission upon their separation from the unit. They also know the requisite actions there and how long they
are to wait at each rally point before moving to another. The most common types of rally points include initial,
en route, objective, near side, and far side. Rally points possess the following characteristics:
• Easily identifiable in daylight and limited visibility.
• Show no signs of recent enemy activity.
• Covered and concealed from the ground and air.
• Away from natural lines of drift and high-speed AAs.
• Defensible for short periods of time.
7-16. The objective rally point typically lies 200 to 400 meters (219 to 437 yards) from the objective or, at a
minimum, one major terrain feature away. Actions at the objective rally point include the following:
• Stopping to look, listen, and smell before pinpointing location.
• Conducting a leader’s reconnaissance of the objective.
• Issuing any necessary FRAGORDs.
• Making final preparations before continuing operations (for example, reapply camouflage; prepare
demolitions; line up rucksacks for quick recovery; prepare EPW’s bindings, first aid kits, and litters;
inspect weapons).
• Accounting for Rangers and equipment after completing actions on the objective.
• Disseminating information from reconnaissance when no contact was made.
7-17. The plan includes a leader’s reconnaissance of the objective once the platoon or squad establishes the
objective rally point. Before departing, the leader issues a five-point contingency plan. During reconnaissance,
the leader pinpoints the objective; selects reconnaissance, security, support, and assault positions for the
elements; and adjusts the plan based on observation of the objective.
7-18. Each type of patrol requires different tasks during the leader’s reconnaissance. The leader brings along
different elements. These are discussed separately under each type of patrol. The leader plans time to return to
the objective rally point, complete the plan, disseminate information, issue orders and instructions, and allow
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-5

Chapter 7
the squads to make any additional preparations. During the leader’s reconnaissance for a raid or ambush, the PL
leaves surveillance on the objective. Each type of patrol also requires different actions on the objective. Actions
on the objective are discussed under each type of patrol.

RECONNAISSANCE PATROLS
7-19. Area and zone reconnaissance patrols provide timely and accurate information on the enemy and terrain
and confirm the leader’s plan before its execution. Units on reconnaissance operations collect specific
information (PIR) or general information based on the instructions from their higher commanders.
7-20. For successful area reconnaissance, the PL applies the fundamentals of reconnaissance to the plan while
conducting the operation. To obtain required information, the parent unit tells the patrol leader the necessary
information in the form of the information requirement and PIRs. The platoon’s mission is then tailored to the
required information. During the entire patrol, members continuously gain and exchange all gathered
information but do not consider the mission accomplished until all the PIRs have been gathered.
7-21. A patrol avoids letting the enemy know it is in the objective area. When the enemy knows they are under
observation, they tend to move, change plans, or increase security measures. Methods of avoiding the enemy’s
detection follow:
• Minimizing movement in the objective area (area reconnaissance).
• Moving no closer to the enemy than necessary.
• Using long-range surveillance or NVDs whenever possible.
• Using camouflage, stealth, and noise and light disciplines.
• Minimizing radio traffic.
7-22. A patrol retains an ability to break contact and return to the friendly unit with the gathered information.
When necessary, they break contact and continue the mission. Leaders emplace security elements to overwatch
the reconnaissance elements. They suppress the enemy to enable the reconnaissance element to break contact.
7-23. When the PL receives the order, the mission undergoes analysis to ensure understanding of what is to be
done. The PL task-organizes the platoon to accomplish the mission in accordance with the METT-TC (I)
variables. A reconnaissance mission is typically a squad-sized mission. The types of reconnaissance are—
• Area reconnaissance — The area reconnaissance patrol collects all available information for the area
on the PIR and other intelligence the order does not specify. It completes reconnaissance and reports
all information by the time the order specifies. The patrol is not compromised.
• Zone reconnaissance — The zone reconnaissance patrol determines for its assigned zone all the PIRs
and other intelligence the order does not specify. It reconnoiters without the enemy’s detection. It
completes reconnaissance and reports all information by the time the order specifies.
ACTIONS ON THE OBJECTIVE, AREA RECONNAISSANCE
7-24. The element occupies the objective rally point as discussed in paragraph 7-47. The RTO reports to higher
HQ that the unit has occupied the objective rally point. The leader confirms the location on the map while
subordinate leaders make necessary perimeter adjustments. (See figure 7-1.) The PL organizes the platoon in
one of two ways: separate reconnaissance and security elements or combined reconnaissance and security
elements.
7-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols

Figure 7-1. Example of area reconnaissance
7-25. The PL takes subordinate leaders and key personnel on a leader’s reconnaissance to confirm the objective
and plan. The PL also—
• Issues a five-point contingency plan before departure.
• Establishes a suitable RP that is definitely out of sight but, whenever possible, is also beyond sight and
sound of the objective. In addition, the suitable RP has good rally point characteristics.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-7

Chapter 7
•
•

•
•

Allows all personnel to become familiar with the RP and surrounding area.
Identifies the objective and emplaces surveillance, designates a surveillance team to keep the objective
under surveillance, and issues a contingency plan to the senior Soldier remaining with the surveillance
team. The surveillance team is positioned with one Soldier facing the objective and one facing back in
the direction of the RP.
Takes subordinate leaders forward to pinpoint the objective, establish a limit of advance (LOA), and
choose vantage points.
Maintains communications with the platoon throughout the leader’s reconnaissance.

7-26. The PSG maintains security, supervises the priorities of work in the objective rally point, and reestablishes
security at the objective rally point. The PSG also disseminates the PL’s contingency plan and oversees the
preparation of the reconnaissance personnel (for example, Soldiers have camouflage reapplied; NVDs and
binoculars prepared; weapons on safe with a round in the chamber).
7-27. The PL and reconnaissance party return to the objective rally point. The PL confirms the plan or issues a
FRAGORD and allows subordinate leaders time to disseminate the plan.
7-28. The patrol conducts reconnaissance by long-range observation and surveillance whenever possible. The
R&S element moves to observation points offering cover and concealment and outside small arms’ range,
establishes a series of OPs when one location does not suffice for gathering information, and gathers all the PIRs
using the SALUTE format.
7-29. If necessary, the patrol conducts reconnaissance by short-range observation and surveillance (see
figure 7-1 on page 7-7), moves to an OP near the objective, passes close enough to the objective to gain
information, and gathers all the PIRs using the SALUTE format.
7-30. R&S teams use techniques such as the cloverleaf method to move to successive OPs. (See figure 7-1 on
page 7-7.) In this method, R&S teams avoid paralleling the objective site, maintain extreme stealth, do not cross
the LOA, and maximize the use of available cover and concealment.
7-31. During the conduct of reconnaissance, each R&S team returns to the RP when any of the following occurs:
• They have gathered all their PIRs.
• They have reached the LOA.
• The allocated time to conduct reconnaissance has elapsed.
• They make enemy contact.
7-32. At the RP, the leader analyzes the gathered information and determines whether it meets the PIRs. When
the leader determines the gathered information insufficient to meet the PIRs, or when the information differs
drastically from that which the leader and subordinate leader gathered, the leader may send the R&S teams back
to the objective site. In this case, the R&S teams alternate areas of responsibilities. For example, when one team
previously reconnoitered from the 6–3–12, that team now reconnoiters from the 6–9–12.
7-33. The R&S element returns undetected to the objective rally point by the specified time, disseminates
information to all patrol members through key leaders, or moves to a position at least one terrain feature or
1 kilometer (0.6 miles) away to disseminate. To disseminate, the leader has the RTO prepare three sketches of
the objective site based on the leader’s sketch and provides copies to the subordinate leaders to assist in

7-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
dissemination. The R&S element reports any information requirements or any information requiring immediate
attention to higher HQ and departs for the designated area.
7-34. If the R&S element makes contact, it moves to the RP. The reconnaissance element tries to break contact
and return to the objective rally point. There, it secures rucksacks and quickly moves out of the area. Once it
has moved a safe distance away, the leader informs higher HQ of the situation and takes further instructions
from them.
a. While emplacing surveillance, the reconnaissance element withdraws through the RP to the objective
rally point and follows the same procedures as in paragraph 7-32.
b. While conducting reconnaissance, the compromised element returns a sufficient volume of fire to
break contact. Surveillance fires an AT4 (antitank) at the largest weapon on the objective. All elements
pull off the objective and move to the RP. The senior leader quickly accounts for all personnel and
returns to the objective rally point. Once in the objective rally point, leaders follow the procedures that
paragraph 7-32 describes. The critical tasks for a patrol follow.
(1) Secure and occupy the objective rally point.
(2) Conduct a leader’s reconnaissance of the objective.
(a) Estimate the RP.
(b) Pinpoint the objective.
(c) Emplace surveillance via the surveillance and observation team. Position any security element.
(3) Conduct reconnaissance by long-range surveillance whenever possible.
(4) Conduct reconnaissance by short-range surveillance as necessary.
(5) Teams.
(a) Move to successive OPs when necessary.
(b) On order, return to the RP.
(c) Once the gathering of the PIR is complete, return to the objective rally point.
(6) Patrol.
(a) Link up as directed in the objective rally point.
(b) Disseminate information before moving.
ACTIONS ON THE OBJECTIVE, ZONE RECONNAISSANCE
7-35. The element occupies the initial objective rally point as discussed in paragraph 7-47. The radio operator
calls in SPARE for the occupation of the objective rally point. The leader confirms the location on the map
while subordinate leaders make necessary perimeter adjustments.
a. Organization. The reconnaissance TLs organize their reconnaissance elements.
(1) Designate security and reconnaissance elements.
(2) Assign responsibilities such as point person, pace person, en route recorder, and rear security when
not already assigned.
(3) Designate easily recognizable rally points.
(4) Ensure local security at all halts.
b. Actions. The patrol reconnoiters the zone.
(1) Moves tactically to the objective rally points.
(2) Occupies the designated objective rally points.
(3) Follows the method designated by the PL, such as fan, converging routes, or box. (See table 7-2
on page 7-10.)
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-9

Chapter 7
(4) The reconnaissance teams reconnoiter.
(a) During movement, the squad gathers all the PIRs that the order specifies.
(b) The reconnaissance TLs ensure their teams draw sketches or take digital photos of all the enemy
hard sites, roads, and trails.
(c) Return to the objective rally point or link up at the rendezvous point on time.
(d) When the squad arrives at a new rendezvous point or objective rally point, the reconnaissance
TLs report all the gathered information to the PL.
(5) The PL continues to control the reconnaissance elements.
(a) Moves with the reconnaissance element who establishes the rendezvous point.
(b) Changes reconnaissance methods as required.
(c) Designates times for the elements to return to the objective rally point or to link up.
(d) Collects all information and disseminates it to the entire patrol. The PL briefs all key
subordinate leaders on information gathered by other squads—establishing one consolidated
sketch whenever possible—and allows TLs time to brief their teams.
(e) With the PSG, accounts for all personnel.
(6) The patrol continues reconnaissance until it has reconnoitered all the designated areas and then
returns undetected to friendly lines.
Table 7-2. Reconnaissance methods

FAN METHOD

Use a series (fan) of ORPs.
Patrol establishes security at the first ORP.
Each reconnaissance element moves from the ORP along a different fan-shaped
route. Each route overlaps with those of other reconnaissance elements. This ensures
reconnaissance of the entire area.
The leader maintains a reserve at the ORP.
Once all the reconnaissance elements return to the ORP, the PL collects and
disseminates all information before moving to the next ORP.

CONVERGING ROUTES
METHOD

The PL selects routes from the ORP through the zone to a rendezvous point at the
far side of the zone from the ORP.
Each reconnaissance element moves and reconnoiters along a specified route. They
converge, or link up, at one time and place.

The PL sends reconnaissance elements from the first ORP along routes that form a
box. Then, the PL sends other elements along routes throughout the box. All teams link
up at the far side of the box from the ORP.
Legend: ORP–objective rally point; PL–platoon leader

BOX METHOD

COMBAT PATROLS
7-36. Combat patrols are the second type of patrol. Combat patrols receive further division into raids, ambushes,
and security patrols. Units conduct combat patrols to destroy or capture enemy soldiers or equipment; destroy
installations, facilities, or key points; or harass enemy forces. Combat patrols also provide security for larger
units.
7-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
7-37. In planning a combat patrol, the PL considers the following.
a. Tasks to maneuver units. Normally the platoon HQ element controls the patrol on a combat patrol
mission. The PL makes every effort to maintain squad and fire team integrity as subordinate units
receive their assigned tasks.
(1) The PL considers the requirements for assaulting the objective and supporting the assault by fire
and the security of the entire unit throughout the mission.
(a) For the assault on the objective, the PL considers the required actions on the objective, the size
of the objective, and the known or presumed strength and disposition of the enemy on and near
the objective.
(b) The PL considers the available weapons and the type and volume of fire required to provide
fire support for the assault on the objective.
(c) The PL considers the requirement to secure the platoon at points along the route, at danger
areas, at the objective rally point, along enemy AAs into the objective, and elsewhere during
the mission.
(d) The PL also designates engagement and disengagement criteria.
(2) The PL assigns additional tasks to the squads for demolition, EPW searches, guarding EPWs,
treating and evacuating (by litter teams) friendly casualties, and other requirements for the
successful completion of the patrol mission when the SOP does not.
(3) The PL determines who controls any attachments of skilled personnel or special equipment.
b. Leader’s reconnaissance of the objective. In a combat patrol, the PL has additional considerations for
the conduct of reconnaissance of the objective from the objective rally point.
(1) Composition of the leader’s reconnaissance party. The PL normally brings the following personnel.
(a) SLs including the WSL.
(b) Surveillance team.
(c) FO.
(d) Security element depending on the time available.
(2) Conduct of the leader’s reconnaissance. In a combat patrol, the PL considers the following
additional actions in the conduct of the leader’s reconnaissance of the objective.
(a) The PL designates an RP about halfway between the objective rally point and the objective,
using the same characteristics as a rally point. The PL then issues a five-point contingency plan
to the security element, and the PL, FO, and surveillance team move to pinpoint the objective
and emplace the surveillance team with eyes on the objective. The PL next moves back to the
RP and emplaces the security element.
(b) The PL confirms the location of the objective or kill zone, notes the terrain, and identifies the
emplacements of claymore mines to cover dead space. SLs receive any changes to the plan
while overlooking the objective whenever possible.
(c) When the objective is the kill zone for an ambush, the leader’s reconnaissance party does not
cross the objective; to do so leaves tracks that can compromise the mission.
(d) The PL confirms the suitability of the assault and support positions and routes from them back
to the objective rally point.
(e) The PL issues a five-point contingency plan to the surveillance team before returning to the
objective rally point.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-11

Chapter 7

AMBUSH
7-38. An ambush is a surprise attack from a concealed position on a moving or temporarily halted target. It falls
into the hasty or deliberate category and point or area type. It assumes a linear or L-shaped formation.
7-39. The leader considers various key factors to determine the ambush category, type, and formation. Then, the
leader develops the ambush plan and considers the following while planning and executing an ambush:
• Key factors:
 Coverage (of ideally the whole kill zone) by fire.
 METT-TC (I) variables.
 Existing or reinforcing obstacles including claymore mines to keep the enemy in the kill zone.
 Security teams usually with hand-held antitank weapons such as AT4s or light antitank weapons,
claymore mines, and various means of communication.
 Security elements or teams to isolate the kill zone.
 Claymore mines or explosives for protecting the assault and support elements.
 Proper method of movement through the kill zone to the LOA that allows some portion of the
assaulting element to provide overwatch from a stable firing position.
Note. The assault element retains an ability to move quickly through its own protective obstacles.


Timing of all the platoon elements’ actions to preclude loss of surprise.

Note. In the event of the compromise of any member of the ambush, the leader may immediately
initiate the ambush.
When employing an ambush of long duration, one squad conducts the entire ambush. Determine the
movement time of the rotating squads from the objective rally point to the ambush site.
•

•

7-12

Categories:
 Hasty — A unit conducts a hasty ambush when it makes visual contact with an enemy force and
has time to establish an ambush without the enemy’s detection. The actions for a hasty ambush are
well rehearsed so Rangers know what to do on the leader’s signal. They also know what actions to
take when the enemy detects the unit before it is ready to initiate the ambush.
 Deliberate — A deliberate ambush is conducted at a predetermined location against any enemy
element who meets the commander’s engagement criteria. The leader requires the following
detailed information when planning a deliberate ambush: the size and composition of the targeted
enemy and the weapons and equipment available to the enemy.
Types:
 Point — Rangers deploy to attack an enemy in a single kill zone.
 Area — Rangers deploy in two or more related point ambushes.
 Antiarmor — Rangers focus on moving or temporarily halted enemy armored vehicles.
TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
•

Formations (see figure 7-2):
 Linear — The assault and support elements deploy parallel to the enemy’s route. This positions
both elements on the long axis of the kill zone and subjects the enemy to flanking fire. This
formation is useful in close terrain that restricts the enemy’s ability to maneuver against the platoon
and also in open terrain, provided a means of keeping the enemy in the kill zone is effectible.
 L-shaped — The assault element forms the long leg parallel to the enemy’s direction of movement
along the kill zone. The support element forms the short leg at one end and at a right angle to the
assault element. This provides both flanking (long leg) and enfilading (short leg) fires against the
enemy. This formation is useful at a sharp bend in a trail, road, or stream but not where the short
leg crosses a straight road or trail.

Figure 7-2. Ambush formations

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-13

Chapter 7
HASTY AMBUSH
7-40. The platoon moves quickly to concealed positions. The ambush initiation occurs only after the majority of
the enemy is in the kill zone. The unit does not become decisively engaged but surprises the enemy. The patrol
captures, kills, or forces the withdrawal of the entire enemy inside the kill zone.
7-41. On order, the patrol withdraws all personnel and equipment in the kill zone from observation and direct
fire. The unit does not become decisively engaged by follow-on elements. The platoon continues follow-on
operations. Actions on the objective follow (see figure 7-3).
a. Using visual signals, any Ranger alerts the unit that an enemy force is in sight. The Ranger continues
to monitor the location and activities of the enemy force until the TL or SL relieves the Ranger and
gives the enemy location and direction of movement.
b. The platoon or squad halts and remains motionless.
(1) The PL gives the signal to conduct a hasty ambush, taking care not to alert the enemy of the patrol’s
presence.
(2) The leader determines the best nearby location for a hasty ambush and uses hand and arm signals
to direct the unit members to covered and concealed positions.
c. The leader designates the location and extent of the kill zone.
d. The teams and squads move silently to covered and concealed positions, ensuring positions avoid the
enemy’s detection and have good observation and fields of fire into the kill zone.
e. The security elements move out to cover each flank and the rear of the unit. The leader directs the
security elements to move a given distance, set up, and then rejoin the unit on order or after the ambush
(when the sound of firing ceases). At squad level, the two outside buddy teams normally provide flank
security, as well as fires into the kill zone. At platoon level, fire teams compose the security elements.
f. The PL assigns sectors of fire and issues any other necessary commands such as control measures.
g. The PL initiates the ambush—using the greatest casualty-producing weapon available—when the
largest percentage of the enemy is in the kill zone.
h. The PL controls the rate and distribution of fire, employs indirect fire to support the ambush, and orders
cease-fire. When the situation dictates, the PL orders the patrol to assault through the kill zone.
i. The PL designates personnel to conduct a hasty search of enemy personnel and then to process EPWs
and their equipment.
j. The PL orders the platoon to withdraw from the ambush site along a covered and concealed route.
k. The PL gains accountability, appropriately reorganizes, disseminates information, reports the situation,
and continues the mission as directed.

7-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols

Figure 7-3. Hasty ambush
DELIBERATE (POINT/AREA) AMBUSH
7-42. The ambush emplacement occurs NLT the time the order specifies. The patrol surprises the enemy and
engages their main body, killing or capturing all enemy in the kill zone and destroying equipment within the
commander’s intent. The patrol withdraws all personnel and equipment from the objective, on order, within the
time the order specifies. The patrol obtains all available PIRs from the ambush and continues follow-on
operations. Actions on the objective follow (see figure 7-4 on page 7-16).

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-15

Chapter 7

Figure 7-4. Deliberate ambush
a. The PL prepares the patrol for the ambush in the objective rally point.
b. The PL prepares to conduct a leader’s reconnaissance.
(1) Designates the members of the leader’s reconnaissance party such as SLs, a surveillance team, an
FO, and possibly the security element.
(2) Issues a contingency plan to the PSG.
c. The PL conducts the leader’s reconnaissance.
(1) Ensures the leader’s reconnaissance party moves without the enemy’s detection.
7-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
(2) Confirms the objective location and suitability for the ambush.
(3) Selects a kill zone.
(4) Posts the surveillance team at the site and issues a contingency plan.
Note. Security teams occupy prior to the PL reconnoitering the assault or support by fire positions,
securing the flanks of the ambush site and providing early warning. A security team remains in the
objective rally point whenever the patrol plans to return to the objective rally point after actions on
the objective. Upon abandonment of the objective rally point, the emplacement of a rear security
team occurs after PLAN and before CONFIRMS. The objective is secured prior to initiating
reconnaissance of the assault or support by fire positions.

d.
e.
f.

g.
h.
i.
j.
k.

(5) Confirms suitability of assault and support positions and routes from the positions to the objective
rally point.
(6) Selects positions for each weapon system in support by fire positions and then designates sectors
of fire.
(7) Identifies all offensive control measures to be used. Identifies the probable line of deployment,
assault position, LOA, and any boundaries or other control measures. The PL may use any available
infrared aiming devices to identify these positions on the ground.
The PL adjusts the plan based on information from reconnaissance.
(1) Assigns positions.
(2) Designates withdrawal routes.
The PL confirms the ambush formation.
The support element leader assigns sectors of fire.
(1) Emplaces claymore mines and obstacles as designated.
(2) Identifies sectors of fire and emplaces limiting stakes or uses metal-to-metal contact with the
machine gun tripod to prevent fratricide on the objective.
(3) Overwatches the movement of the assault element into position.
Once the support element is in position or on the PL’s order, the assault element departs the objective
rally point and moves into position.
Upon reaching the assault position, leaders identify individual sectors of fire as assigned by the PL.
The support element emplaces aiming stakes and, to help destroy the enemy in the kill zone, claymore
mines and camouflages positions.
The security element spots the enemy and notifies the PL with reports on the direction of movement,
size of the target, and any special weapons or equipment. The security element also keeps the PL
informed of any enemy forces following the lead force.
The PL alerts other elements and determines whether the enemy force is too large for the ambush to
engage successfully.
The PL initiates the ambush with the highest casualty-producing device. The PL may use a
command-detonated claymore mine and plan a backup method for initiating the ambush in case the
primary means fail. In the event the PL does not use a claymore mine or the mine misfires, the PL
initiates with a closed bolt weapon system. Open bolt weapon systems are more prone to malfunctions,

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-17

Chapter 7
thereby providing the enemy with both early warning and the ability to react. All Rangers receive this
information and practice it during rehearsals.
l. The PL ensures the assault and support elements deliver fires on the enemy in the kill zone with the
heaviest, most accurate volume possible. In limited visibility, the PL may use infrared lasers to define
specific targets in the kill zone.
m. Before assaulting the target, the PL gives the signal to lift or shift fires and receives confirmation.
n. The assault element assaults before the remaining enemy reacts, kills or captures the enemy in the kill
zone, and uses individual movement techniques or bounds by fire teams to move.
o. Upon reaching the LOA, the assault element halts and establishes security. The element reestablishes
the chain of command and key weapon systems as necessary. All Rangers load a fresh magazine or
drum of ammunition using the buddy system. LACE report submissions pass through the chain of
command. The PL submits an initial contact report to higher HQ.
p. The PL directs special teams (for example, EPW search, aid and litter, demolition) to accomplish their
assigned tasks once the assault element has established its LOA.
(1) Once the kill zone is clear, collect and secure all EPWs and move them out of the kill zone before
searching their bodies. Coordinate for an EPW exchange point to link up with higher HQ to extract
all EPWs. Treat them in accordance with the 5-S rule.
(2) Search from one side to the other and mark the searched bodies to ensure the area is thoroughly
covered. Use clear out / search in the intelligence technique, which has the unit clear from the
center of the objective outward, to ensure the area is clear of all enemy combatants. At this time,
the platoon begins simultaneously conducting any necessary casualty care operations. Then, search
all enemy personnel toward the center of the objective. Search all dead enemy personnel using the
two-Ranger search technique.
(a) As the search team approaches a dead enemy soldier, one Ranger guards while the other Ranger
searches. First, kick the enemy’s weapon away.
(b) Search Rangers roll over any prone-positioned body (facedown) by lying on top and, when
given the go-ahead by the guard positioned at the enemy’s head, rolling the body over onto
their own bodies. This protects a search Ranger in case the enemy soldier is concealing a
grenade with the pin pulled.
(c) Search Rangers conduct a systematic search of the dead soldier from head to toe, removing all
papers and anything new (for example, different type rank, shoulder boards, different unit
patch, pistol, weapon, NVD). They note whether the enemy soldier has a fresh or shabby
haircut, the condition of the uniform and boots, and the radio frequency. They secure the signal
operating instructions, maps, documents, and overlays.
(d) The two Rangers thoroughly search one body at a time and continue in this manner until their
platoon has examined all enemy personnel in and near the kill zone.
(3) Identify, collect, and prepare all equipment to be carried back or destroyed.
(4) Evacuate and treat friendly wounded first, then enemy wounded as time permits.
(5) The demolition team prepares dual-primed explosives or incendiary grenades and awaits the signal
to initiate. This is normally the last action performed before the unit departs the objective and
signals the security elements to return to the objective rally point.
(6) All actions on the objective with a stationary assault line are the same, with the exception of the
search teams. To provide security within the teams to the far side of the kill zone during the search,
7-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols

q.
r.

s.
t.
u.

they work in three-Ranger teams. Before the search begins, the Rangers move all KIAs to the near
side of the kill zone.
If enemy reinforcements try to penetrate the kill zone, the flank security engages to prevent the
compromise of the assault element.
The PL directs the units’ withdrawal from the ambush site.
(1) Elements normally withdraw in the reverse order from that they followed to establish their
positions.
(2) The elements return to the RP or directly to the objective rally point depending on the distance
between elements.
(3) The security element of the objective rally point is alert to assist the platoon’s return. It maintains
security for the objective rally point while the rest of the platoon prepares to leave.
(4) When possible, all elements return to the location at which they separated from the main body.
This location is normally the RP.
The PL and PSG direct actions at the objective rally point including accountability of personnel and
equipment and recovery of rucksacks and other equipment left at the objective rally point during the
ambush.
The PL disseminates information or first moves the platoon to a safe location (no nearer 1 kilometer
[0.6 miles] or one terrain feature away from the objective) and then disseminates information.
As required, the PL and FO execute indirect fire to cover the platoon’s withdrawal.

PERFORMING A RAID
7-43. Raids are surprise attacks against a position or installation for a specific purpose other than seizing and
holding the terrain. Their purpose is to destroy a position or installation, to destroy or capture enemy soldiers or
equipment, or to free prisoners. A raid patrol retains terrain just long enough to accomplish the intent of the raid.
A raid always ends with a planned withdrawal off the objective and a return to the main body.
7-44. The patrol initiates the raid NLT the time the order specifies, surprises the enemy, assaults the objective,
and accomplishes its assigned mission within the commander’s intent. The patrol does not become decisively
engaged en route to the objective. The patrol obtains all available PIRs from the raid objective and continues
follow-on operations.
a. Planning considerations. A raid is a form of attack, usually small in scale, involving a swift entry into
hostile territory to secure information, confuse the enemy, or destroy installations and followed by a
planned withdrawal. Squads do not conduct raids. The sequence of platoon actions for a raid is similar
to that for an ambush. Additionally, the assault element of the platoon conducts any necessary breach
of an obstacle and performs any additional tasks on the objective, such as demolition of fixed facilities.
The fundamentals of a raid follow.
(1) Surprise and speed. Infiltrate and surprise the enemy without their detection.
(2) Coordinated fires. Seal off the objective with well-synchronized direct and indirect fires.
(3) Violence of action. Overwhelm the enemy with fire and maneuver.
(4) Planned withdrawal. Withdraw from the objective in an organized manner, maintaining security
and accountability.
b. Actions on the objective (raid) (see figure 7-5 on page 7-20).

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-19

Chapter 7

Figure 7-5. Actions on the objective (raid)
(1) The patrol moves to and occupies the objective rally point in accordance with the patrol’s SOP.
The patrol prepares for the leader’s reconnaissance.
(2) The PL, SLs, and selected personnel conduct a leader’s reconnaissance.
(a) The PL establishes the RP; pinpoints the objective; contacts the PSG to prepare Soldiers,
weapons, and equipment; emplaces the surveillance team to observe the objective; and verifies
and updates intelligence information.
(b) Upon emplacing the surveillance team, the PL provides a five-point contingency plan to the
PSG.
7-20

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
(c) The security teams are brought forward on the leader’s reconnaissance and emplaced before
the leader’s reconnaissance leaves the RP.
(d) The leader’s reconnaissance verifies the locations of and routes to security, support, and assault
positions.
(e) The leaders conduct reconnaissance without compromising the patrol.
(f) The leaders normally conduct reconnaissance of the support by fire position first, then the
assault position.
(3) The PL confirms, denies, or modifies the plan and issues instructions to the SLs.
(a) Assigns positions and withdrawal routes to all elements.
(b) Designates control measures on the objective, such as element objectives, lanes, LOAs, target
reference points, and assault lines.
(c) Affords the SLs time to disseminate information and confirm their elements are ready.
(4) The security elements occupy designated positions, moving without the enemy’s detection into
positions that provide early warning and can seal off the objective from outside support or
reinforcement.
(5) The support element leader moves the support element to their designated positions. The support
element leader ensures the element can place well-aimed fire on the objective.
(6) The PL moves with the assault element into the assault position. The assault position is normally
the last covered and concealed position before reaching the objective. As it passes through the
assault position, the platoon deploys into its assault formation. Its squads and fire teams deploy to
place the bulk of their firepower to the front as they assault the objective.
(7) The squad and fire teams also make contact with the surveillance team to confirm any enemy
activity on the objective; ensure the assault position is close enough for immediate assault in case
the element suffers early detection; move into position without the enemy’s detection; and establish
local security and fire control measures.
(8) The element leaders inform the PL when their elements are in position and ready.
(9) The PL initiates the raid and directs the support element to fire.
(10) Upon gaining fire superiority, the PL directs the assault element to move toward the objective:
(a) The assault element holds fire until engaged or until ready to penetrate the objective.
(b) The PL signals the support element to lift or shift fires and receives confirmation from the
support element. The element lifts or shifts fires as directed, shifting fires to the flanks of targets
or areas as the order directs.
(11) The assault element attacks and secures the objective. The assault element breaches any wire
obstacles. As the platoon or its assault element moves onto the objective, it increases the volume
and accuracy of fire. The SLs assign specific targets or objectives for their fire teams. Only when
direct fire maintains enemy suppression does the rest of the unit maneuver. As the assault element
gets closer to the enemy, emphasis on suppression increases and maneuver decreases. Ultimately,
all but one fire team suppresses to allow that one fire team to break into the enemy position.
Throughout the assault, Rangers use proper individual movement techniques, and fire teams retain
their basic shallow wedge formation. The platoon does not get on line to sweep across the objective.
(a) The assault element assaults through the objective to the designated LOA.
(b) The assault element leaders establish local security along the LOA and consolidate and
reorganize appropriately. They provide LACE reports to the PL and PSG. The platoon
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-21

Chapter 7
establishes security, reorganizes key weapons, provides first aid, and prepares wounded
Rangers for MEDEVAC. They redistribute ammunition and supplies and relocate selected
weapons to alternate positions when leaders believe the enemy has pinpointed them during the
attack. They adjust other positions for mutual support. The SL and TL provide LACE reports
to the PL. The PL or PSG reorganizes the patrol based on the contact.
_1_ On order, the special teams accomplish all assigned tasks under the supervision of the PL,
who is positioned to control the patrol.
_2_ The special TLs report to PL when their teams complete their assigned tasks.
(12) On order or the signal of the PL, the assault element withdraws from the objective. Using
prearranged signals, the assault line begins an organized withdrawal from the objective site,
maintaining control and security throughout the withdrawal. The assault element bounds back near
the original assault line and begins a single file withdrawal through the antipersonnel landmine
chokepoint. All the Rangers move through the chokepoint for an accurate count. Once the assault
element is a safe distance from the objective and the headcount is confirmed, the platoon withdraws
the support element. When the support elements were a part of the assault line, they withdraw
together, and security receives the signal to withdraw. Once the support is a safe distance off the
objective, they notify the PL, who contacts the security element and signals them to withdraw. All
security teams link up at the RP and notify the PL before moving to the objective rally point.
Personnel returning to the objective rally point immediately secure their equipment and establish
all-around security. Once the security element returns, the platoon moves out of the objective area
as soon as possible.
(a) Before withdrawing, the demolition team activates devices and charges.
(b) The support element or designated personnel in the assault element maintain local security
during the withdrawal.
(c) The leaders report updated accountability and status to the PL and PSG.
(13) The squads withdraw from the objective to the objective rally point in the order that the order
designates.
(a) Account for personnel and equipment.
(b) Disseminate information.
(c) Redistribute ammunition and equipment appropriately.
(14) The PL reports mission accomplishment to higher HQ and continues the mission.
(a) Reports raid assessment to higher HQ.
(b) Informs higher HQ of any information requirements and PIRs gathered.

SUPPORTING TASKS
7-45. Supporting tasks include a linkup, patrol debriefing, and occupation of an objective rally point. A linkup
is a meeting of friendly ground forces. It depends on control, detailed planning, communications, and stealth.
a. Task standard, or the unit’s linkup at the time and place the order specifies. The enemy does not
surprise the main bodies. The linkup units establish a consolidated chain of command.
b. Site selection. The leader identifies a tentative linkup site by map reconnaissance or other imagery, or
higher HQ designates a linkup site. The best linkup site has the following characteristics.
(1) Ease of recognition.
(2) Cover and concealment from ground and air.
7-22

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
(3) No tactical value to the enemy.
(4) Location away from natural lines of drift.
(5) Defensible for a short period of time.
(6) Multiple access and escape routes.
c. Execution. The linkup procedure begins as the unit moves to the linkup point. The steps of this
procedure follow.
(1) The stationary unit performs linkup actions.
(a) Occupies the linkup rally point NLT the time the order specifies.
(b) Establishes all-around security and communications and prepares to accept the moving unit.
(c) The security team clears the immediate area around the linkup point; marks the linkup point
with the coordinated recognition signal; moves to a covered and concealed position; and
observes the linkup point and immediate area around it.
(2) The moving unit.
(a) Performs linkup actions.
(b) Reports its location using phase lines, checkpoints, or other control measures.
(c) Halts at a safe distance from the linkup point in a covered and concealed position (the linkup
rally point).
(3) The PL and a contact team.
(a) Prepare to make physical contact with the stationary unit.
(b) Issue a contingency plan to the PSG.
(c) Maintain communications with the platoon and verify near and far recognition signals for
linkup (good visibility and limited visibility).
(d) Exchange far and near recognition signals with the linkup unit
(e) Conduct final coordination with the linkup unit.
(4) The stationary unit.
(a) Guides the patrol from its linkup rally point to the stationary unit’s linkup rally point.
(b) Completes linkup by the time the order specifies.
(c) The main body receives an alert before the moving unit is brought forward.
(5) The patrol continues its mission in accordance with the order.
d. Coordination checklist. The PL coordinates or obtains the following information from the unit with
whom the patrol will link up.
(1) Exchange frequencies, call signs, codes, and other communications information.
(2) Near and far recognition signals.
(3) Fires coordination measures.
(4) Command relationship with the linkup unit and plan for consolidation of chain of command.
(5) Actions following linkup.
(6) Control measures such as phase lines and contact points as appropriate.
7-46. Immediately after the platoon or squad returns, personnel from higher HQ conduct a thorough debriefing.
This interrogates all members of the platoon or the leaders, RTOs, and any attached personnel. Normally, the
debriefing is oral but sometimes requires a written report. The following information appears on the written
report:
• Size and composition of the unit conducting the patrol.
• Mission of the platoon, such as type of patrol, location, and purpose.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-23

Chapter 7
•
•
•
•
•
•

Departure and return times.
Route including checkpoints and grid coordinates for each leg or including an overlay.
Detailed descriptions of terrain and any identified enemy positions.
Results of any contact with the enemy.
Unit status at the conclusion of the patrol mission including the disposition of dead or wounded
Rangers.
Conclusions or recommendations.

7-47. The objective rally point is a point out of sight, sound, and small arms’ range of the objective area. Its
normal location is in the direction the platoon plans to move after the completion of actions on the objective.
The objective rally point is tentative until the pinpointing of the objective.
a. Occupation of the objective rally point (see figure 7-6).

Figure 7-6. Occupation of the objective rally point

7-24

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
(1) The patrol halts beyond sight and sound of the tentative objective rally point (200 to 400 meters
[219 to 437 yards] in good visibility; 100 to 200 meters [109 to 219 yards] in limited visibility).
(2) The patrol establishes a security halt in accordance with the unit’s SOP.
(3) After issuing a five-point contingency plan to the PSG, the PL moves forward with a
reconnaissance element to conduct a leader’s reconnaissance of the objective rally point.
(4) For a squad-sized patrol, the PL moves forward with a compass Soldier and one member of each
fire team to confirm the objective rally point.
(a) After physically clearing the objective rally point location and confirming communications
with higher HQ, the PL leaves two Rangers at the 6 o’clock position, facing in opposite
directions.
(b) The PL issues a contingency plan and returns with the compass Soldier to guide the patrol
forward.
(c) The PL guides the patrol forward into the objective rally point with one team occupying from
3 o’clock through 12 o’clock to 9 o’clock and the other occupying from 9 o’clock through
6 o’clock to 3 o’clock.
(5) For a platoon-sized patrol, the PL, RTO, WSL, three ammunition bearers, a TL, a squad automatic
weapon gunner, and rifle shooters join the leader’s reconnaissance for the objective rally point and
position themselves at 10, 2, and 6 o’clock.
(a) The first squad in the order of march is the base squad who occupies from 10 to 2 o’clock.
Their arrangement follows.
(b) The trail squads occupy from 2 to 6 o’clock and 6 to 10 o’clock, respectively.
(c) The patrol HQ element occupies the center of the triangle.
b. Actions in the objective rally point.
(1) The unit prepares for the mission in the objective rally point.
(2) Once the leader’s reconnaissance pinpoints the objective, the PSG generally lines up rucksacks in
accordance with the unit’s SOP in the center of the objective rally point.

PATROL BASE
7-48. A PB is a security perimeter set up when a squad or platoon, while conducting a patrol, halts for an
extended period. Units do not occupy PBs for longer than a 24-hour period, except in an emergency. A patrol
never uses the same PB twice.
a. Typical uses.
(1) To avoid the enemy’s detection by eliminating movement.
(2) To hide during a long, detailed reconnaissance.
(3) To perform maintenance on weapons and equipment and to eat and rest.
(4) To plan and issue orders.
(5) To reorganize after infiltrating an enemy area.
(6) To establish a base from which to execute several consecutive or concurrent operations.
b. Site selection. The leader selects the tentative site from a map or by aerial reconnaissance. An effective
site for a PB is easily defensible for short periods of time and away from natural lines of drift and
high-speed AAs. The ideal site provides cover and concealment from both ground and air, as well as
little to no tactical advantage to the enemy. Leaders confirm the site’s suitability and security before

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-25

Chapter 7
the unit moves into it. Plans to establish a PB include an alternate PB site in case the first site proves
unsuitable or the patrol unexpectedly evacuates.
c. Planning considerations. Leaders planning a PB consider the mission and passive and active security
measures. A PB’s location allows the unit to accomplish its mission.
(1) OPs and communication with OPs.
(2) Patrol or platoon fire plan.
(3) Alert plan.
(4) Withdrawal plan from the PB including withdrawal routes and a rally point, rendezvous point, or
alternate PB.
(5) Security system to ensure specific Rangers are awake at all times.
(6) Camouflage, noise, and light disciplines.
(7) Conduct of required activities with minimum movement and noise.
(8) Priorities of work.
d. Security measures.
(1) Select terrain the enemy probably considers of little tactical value.
(2) Select terrain off the main lines of drift.
(3) Select difficult terrain that impedes foot movement such as an area of dense vegetation, preferably
bushes and trees spreading close to the ground.
(4) Select terrain near a source of water.
(5) Select terrain that is defensible for a short period and that offers good cover and concealment.
(6) Avoid known or suspected enemy positions.
(7) Avoid built-up areas.
(8) Avoid ridges and hilltops except when necessary to maintain communications.
(9) Avoid small valleys.
(10) Avoid roads and trails.

7-26

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
e. Occupation (see figure 7-7).

Figure 7-7. Patrol base
(1) The same manner is useful for reconnoitering and occupying a PB as for an objective rally point
with the exception that platoons typically plan to enter at a 90-degree turn. The PL leaves a
two-Ranger OP at the turn, and the patrol covers any tracks from the turn to the PB.
(2) The platoon moves into the PB. Squad-sized patrols generally occupy a cigar-shaped perimeter;
platoon-sized patrols generally occupy a triangle-shaped perimeter.
(3) The PL and another designated leader inspect and appropriately adjust the entire perimeter.
(4) After the PL has checked each squad sector, each SL sends a two-Ranger R&S team to the PL at
the command post. The PL issues the three R&S teams a contingency plan, reconnaissance method,
and detailed guidance on what to look for (for example, enemy, water, built-up areas or human
habitat, roads, trails, possible rally points).
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-27

Chapter 7
(5) The PL’s guidance determines where each R&S team departs. The R&S team moves a prescribed
distance and direction and reenters where the PL dictates.
(a) Squad-sized patrols do not normally send out an R&S team at night.
(b) The R&S teams prepare a sketch of the area to the squad’s front whenever possible.
(c) The patrol remains 100-percent alert during this reconnaissance.
(d) If the PL feels the enemy tracked or followed the patrol, the PL may elect to wait in silence at
100-percent alert before sending out the R&S teams.
(e) The R&S teams use methods such as those referred to as the I, Box, or T (see figure 7-8).
Regardless of the chosen method, the R&S team retains the ability to provide the PL with the
same information.
(f) Upon completion of R&S, the PL confirms or denies the PB location and either moves the
patrol or begins priorities of work.

7-28

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols

Figure 7-8. Reconnaissance and surveillance team movement methods
f. Passive (clandestine) PB (squad).
(1) The purpose of a passive PB is for a squad-sized or smaller element to rest.
(2) The unit moves as a whole and occupies in force.
(3) The SL ensures the unit moves in at a 90-degree angle to the order of movement.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-29

Chapter 7
(4) The unit emplaces a claymore mine on the route entering the PB.
(5) The Alpha and Bravo teams sit back-to-back and facing outward to ensure at least one individual
on each team is alert and providing security.
g. Priorities of work (platoon and squad). Once the R&S teams brief the PL and the PL determines the
area is suitable for a PB, the leader sets or modifies defensive work priorities to establish the defense
of the PB. Priorities of work are not a laundry list of tasks for completing; to be effective, priorities of
work consist of a task, given time, and measurable performance standard. A clear standard for each
priority of work guides the element in the successful accomplishment of each task. Whether the control
of the work occurs in a centralized or decentralized manner also receives designation. A centralized
manner is when the PL maintains control and all squads conduct the same priority of work. A
decentralized manner is when the SLs maintain control and conduct priorities independently of one
another in accordance with the METT-TC (I) variables and PL’s guidance after the establishment of
security. Priorities of work depend on the METT-TC (I) variables and include but are not limited to
the following tasks.
(1) Security (continuous). The security plan is always the first priority of work conducted.
(a) Prepare to use all passive and active measures to cover the entire perimeter at all times
regardless of the percentage of weapons used to cover all the terrain.
(b) Readjust after the R&S teams return or readjust based on the current priority of work such as
weapons maintenance.
(c) Employ all elements, weapons, and personnel to meet conditions of the terrain, enemy, or
situation.
(d) Assign sectors of fire to all personnel and weapons. Develop squad sector sketches and a
platoon fire plan.
(e) Confirm the locations of fighting positions for cover, concealment, observation, and fields of
fire. The SLs supervise the placement of aiming stakes and claymore mines.
(f) Use only one point of entry and exit and count personnel in and out. Challenge everyone in
accordance with the unit’s SOP.
(g) Prepare hasty fighting positions at least 18 inches (45 centimeters) deep at the front and sloping
gently from front to rear, with a grenade sump whenever possible.
(2) Withdrawal plan. The PL designates the signal for withdrawal, order of withdrawal, and the platoon
rendezvous point or alternate PB.
(3) Communication (continuous). Maintain communications with higher HQ and OPs and within the
unit. The patrol’s RTOs sometimes rotate this responsibility to accomplish continuous radio
monitoring maintenance, to act as runners for the PL, and to conduct other priorities of work.
(4) Mission preparation and planning. The PL uses the PB to plan, issue orders, rehearse, inspect, and
prepare for future missions.
(5) Weapons and equipment maintenance. The PL ensures the maintenance of machine guns, weapon
systems, communications equipment, and NVDs, as well as other equipment. Disassembly for
maintenance does not occur at the same time for more than 33 percent of these items in total.
Weapon disassembly never occurs at night. When one machine gun is down, raise security for all
the remaining systems.

7-30

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Patrols
(6) Water resupply. The PSG appropriately organizes watering parties. The watering party carries
canteens in an empty rucksack or duffel bag and has communications and a contingency plan prior
to departure.
(7) Mess plan. At a minimum, perform security and weapons maintenance prior to mess. Normally,
no more than half the platoon eats at one time. Rangers eat 1 to 3 meters (3 to 10 feet) behind their
fighting positions.
(a) Rest and sleep plan management. The patrol conducts appropriate rest to prepare for future
operations.
(b) Alert plan and stand-to. The PL states the alert posture and stand-to time. The plan ensures
periodic checks of all positions, periodic relief of OPs, and at least one always alert leader. The
patrol typically conducts stand-to at a time the unit’s SOP specifies, such as 30 minutes before
and after begin morning nautical twilight or end of evening nautical twilight.
(c) Resupply. Distribute or cross-load ammunition, meals, equipment, and other items.
(d) Sanitation and personal hygiene. The PSG and medic ensure the preparation and marking of a
slit trench. All Rangers brush their teeth, shave, and wash their faces, hands, armpits, groins,
and feet. The patrol does not leave trash.

MOVEMENT TO CONTACT
7-49. Movement to contact is one of the five types of offensive operations. Movement to contact gains or regains
contact with the enemy. Once the unit makes contact, it develops the situation. Normally, a platoon conducts
movement to contact as part of a larger force. The two techniques for conducting movement to contact are search
and attack and cordon and search.
a. Search and attack. The search and attack technique is useful when the enemy withdraws or is dispersed,
expected to avoid contact, or disengaged or when the enemy’s movement in an area is denied. The
search and attack technique involves multiple platoons, squads, and fire teams and coordinates their
actions to make contact with the enemy. Platoons typically try to find the enemy and then fix and finish
them. They combine patrolling techniques with hasty or deliberate attacks upon finding the enemy.
(1) Planning considerations.
(a) METT-TC (I) variables.
(b) Decentralized execution requirement.
(c) Mutual support requirement.
(d) Length of operations.
(e) Minimization of the Soldier’s load to improve stealth and speed.
(f) Resupply and MEDEVAC.
(g) Positioning of key leaders and equipment.
(h) Employment of key weapons.
(i) PB requirement.
(j) Concept for entering the zone of action.
(k) Concept for linkups while in contact.
(2) Critical performance measures.
(a) The platoon locates the enemy without their detection.
(b) Once engaged, the platoon fixes the enemy in position and maneuvers against the enemy.
(c) The platoon maintains security throughout actions to avoid its flanking.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

7-31

Chapter 7
b. Cordon and search. A technique of conducting movement to contact that isolates a target area and
searches suspect locations in that target area to capture or destroy possible enemy forces and
contraband. A platoon uses the cordon and search technique as part of a larger unit. A leader may task
a platoon as the cordon or the search element for the company or battalion.
(1) Planning. Immediately upon receipt of the mission, the company-level commander conducts
reconnaissance of the target to be searched. Ideally, the battalion or brigade intelligence staff
officer provides maps or satellite imagery. Leaders avoid sending a patrol to the area of the target
since the patrol can unnerve the target and cause them to flee prior to the search. However,
depending on how much information a commander has, no alternative may remain but to conduct
reconnaissance to determine the target’s location. The patrol does not necessarily alert the target
when patrols frequent the area, but the patrol need not loiter in the area any longer than necessary.
(2) Preparing. Rehearsals are key to successful cordon and search operations. Units develop their own
requirements for what to rehearse.
(3) Organization of cordon and search elements.
(a) Outer cordon element: security and support element.
(b) Inner cordon element: search element.
(c) Assault force: detention and collection element.
(4) Execution. As the unit approaches the objective, the inner cordon and assault forces allow enough
time for the outer cordon force to set before actually arriving at the target. The locals know the
sound of military vehicles, and any present subversive element tends to flee upon hearing units
approach. While the impact is not always immediate, vehicles and foot traffic (aside from curious
onlookers) around the objective dissipate quickly once the outer cordon is set, facilitating the
movement of other elements to the objective.

TASK STANDARDS
7-50. The platoon moves NLT the time the order specifies and makes contact with the smallest element possible.
The enemy does not surprise the main body. Once the platoon makes contact, it maintains contact. The platoon
destroys squad-sized or smaller elements and fixes elements larger than a squad. The platoon maintains a
fighting force sufficient for conducting further combat operations.
7-51. The platoon forwards reports of enemy locations and contact. When the enemy does not detect the platoon,
the PL initiates a hasty attack. The platoon sustains no casualties from friendly fire. The platoon remains
prepared to initiate further movement within 25 minutes of contact and account for all personnel and equipment.

7-32

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 8
Battle Drills
This chapter provides select battle drills. These collective actions are designed to teach a
Soldier or small unit to react and survive in common combat situations. A platoon, squad,
team, or crew performs these actions when initiated to do so by a predetermined verbal
or visual cue. Battle drills are performed instinctively, with little to no notice; they require
minimal leader direction. Once initiated, they are vital to the success of the combat
operation and critical to preserving life (see FM 7-0). Appendix A provides graphic
examples. Appendix B provides quick reference cards. (See ATP 3-21.8 for information
on the drills.) For the most updated battle drills, see the Army Training Network or
Central Army Registry website.

React to Direct Fire Contact While Dismounted − Platoon (07-PLT-D9501)
Conditions: The platoon is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a company
or larger force. The platoon is dismounted. While stationary or moving, the enemy engages the platoon with direct fire.
Some iterations of this task should be performed in [mission-oriented protective posture (MOPP) 4] and at night.
Standards: The platoon reacts to direct fire contact while dismounted according to ATP 3-21.8. The squad in contact
returns fire immediately and seeks cover. The squad in contact locates the enemy and places well-aimed fire on known
enemy positions. Leaders point out enemy positions and identify the types of weapons, such as small arms and light
machine guns. The squads not in contact assume the nearest covered and concealed position. The platoon leader (PL)
reports the contact.
Cue: The drill begins when the enemy initiates direct fire contact.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. The squad in contact immediately returns well-aimed suppressive fire on known or suspected enemy positions
while taking up a covered position.
2. The squads not in contact [assume] the nearest covered and concealed position. (See figure 8-1 on page 8-2.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-1

Chapter 8

Figure 8-1. Platoon’s return fire and nearest covered and concealed positions
* 3. The squad leaders engage known or suspected enemy positions with well-aimed suppressive fire and report
information to the platoon leader and platoon sergeant.
* 4. The squad leaders control the fire of their Soldiers by using standard fire command (initial and supplemental)
containing the following information:
a. Alert.
b. Weapon or ammunition (optional).
c. Target description.
d. Direction.
e. Range.
8-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
f. Method.
g. Control (optional).
h. Execution.
i. Termination.
5. Soldiers maintain visual or vocal contact with their leaders and the other Soldiers on their left or right (if
applicable).
6. Soldiers maintain contact with the team leader and indicate the location of enemy positions.
* 7. Leaders visually or vocally check the status of their personnel.
* 8. The squad leaders maintain visual contact with the platoon leader.
* 9. The platoon leader moves up to a covered and concealed position where best to observe, communicate, and
control the engagement. (See figure 8-2.)

Figure 8-2. Well-aimed fires and platoon leader control
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-3

Chapter 8
a. The platoon leader brings the radio-telephone operator, forward observer, squad leader of the nearest squad,
and one crew-served weapon team (machine gun team if available).
b. The squad leaders of the squads not in contact move to the front of their squad.
c. The platoon sergeant moves forward with the remaining crew-served weapons and links up with the platoon
leader and assumes control of the support element.
* 10. The platoon leader determines whether or not the platoon can gain and maintain suppressive fires with the squad
already in contact (based on the volume and accuracy of enemy fires against the squad in contact).
* 11. The platoon leader confirms the [commander’s] criteria to disengage and determines whether or not the platoon
must move out of the engagement area.
* 12. The platoon leader makes an assessment of the situation and identifies [the]—
a. Location of the enemy position and obstacles.
b. Size of the enemy force engaging the squad in contact. (The number of enemy automatic weapons, the
presence of any vehicles, and the employment of indirect fire are indicators of enemy strength.)
c. Vulnerable flanks.
d. Covered and concealed flanking routes to the enemy positions.
* 13. The platoon leader decides whether to conduct an assault, bypass (if authorized by the company commander),
or break contact.
* 14. The platoon leader reports the situation and begins to maneuver the platoon.

React to Direct Fire Contact While Dismounted − Squad (07-SQD-D9501)
Conditions: The squad is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a platoon or
larger force. The squad is dismounted. While stationary or moving, the enemy engages the squad with direct fire. Some
iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The squad reacts to direct fire contact while dismounted according to ATP 3-21.8. The team in contact
returns fire immediately and seeks cover. The team in contact locates the enemy and places well-aimed fire on known
enemy positions. Leaders point out enemy positions and identify the types of weapons, such as small arms and light
machine guns. The team not in contact [assumes] the nearest covered and concealed position. The squad leader (SL)
reports the contact.
Cue: The drill begins when the enemy initiates direct fire contact.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. The team in contact immediately returns well-aimed suppressive fire on known or suspected enemy positions while
taking up a covered position.
2. The team not in contact assumes the nearest covered and concealed position. (See figure 8-3.)

8-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

Figure 8-3. Squad’s return fire and nearest covered and concealed position
* 3. The team leaders engage known or suspected enemy positions with well-aimed suppressive fire and report
information to the squad leader.
* 4. The team leaders control the fire of their teams by using standard fire command (initial and supplemental)
containing the following information:
a. Alert.
b. Weapon or ammunition (optional).
c. Target description.
d. Direction.
e. Range.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-5

Chapter 8
f. Method.
g. Control (optional).
h. Execution.
i. Termination.
5. Soldiers maintain visual or vocal contact with their team leader and the other Soldiers on their left or right (if
applicable).
6. Soldiers maintain contact with the team leader and indicate the location of enemy positions.
* 7. Leaders visually or vocally check the status of their personnel.
* 8. The team leaders maintain visual contact with the squad leader.
* 9. The squad leader moves up to a covered and concealed position where best to observe, communicate, and control
the engagement. (See figure 8-4.)

Figure 8-4. Well-aimed fires and squad leader control
8-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
* 10. The squad leader determines whether or not the squad can gain and maintain suppressive fires with the team
already in contact (based on the volume and accuracy of enemy fires against the team in contact).
* 11. The squad leader confirms the [commander’s] criteria to disengage and determines whether or not the squad
must move out of the engagement area.
* 12. The squad leader makes an assessment of the situation and identifies [the]—
a. Location of the enemy position and obstacles.
b. Size of the enemy force engaging the team in contact. (The number of enemy automatic weapons, the
presence of any vehicles, and the employment of indirect fires are indicators of enemy strength.)
c. Vulnerable flanks.
d. Covered and concealed flanking routes to enemy positions.
* 13. The squad leader decides whether to conduct an assault, bypass (if authorized by the platoon leader), or break
contact.
* 14. The squad leader reports the situation and begins to maneuver the squad.

Conduct a Platoon Assault (07-PLT-D9514)
Conditions: The platoon is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a company
or larger force. The platoon is part of a movement to contact or an attack. The enemy initiates direct fire contact on the
lead squad. Some iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The platoon conducts an assault according to ATP 3-21.8. The platoon locates and suppresses the enemy,
establishes supporting fire, and assaults the enemy position using fire and maneuver. The platoon destroys or causes the
enemy to withdraw and conducts consolidation and reorganization.
Cue: The drill begins when the enemy initiates direct fire contact.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. The platoon conducts action on enemy contact, as follows:
a. The squad or section in contact reacts to contact by immediately returning well-aimed fire on known enemy
positions.
b. The squad or section leader, in contact, notifies the platoon leader of the action.
c. The squad or section, in contact, attempts to achieve suppressive fires.
d. Dismounted Soldiers assume the nearest covered positions.
e. Vehicles ([Bradley Fighting Vehicles], Strykers, and [high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles]), if
applicable, move out of the beaten zone and the engagement area.
* 2. The platoon leader gives the command to dismount the vehicles, if mounted.
3. The platoon sergeant takes control of the vehicles, if applicable.
* 4. The platoon leader, [radio-telephone] operator, [forward observer (FO)], squad leader of the next squad, and one
machine gun team move forward to [link up] with the squad leader of the squad or section in contact.
* 5. The squad leader of the trail squad moves to the front of the trail squad’s lead fire team.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-7

Chapter 8
* 6. The weapons squad leader and second machine gun team move forward and [link up] with the platoon leader. If
directed, the weapons squad leader assumes control of [the] base-of-fire element and positions the machine guns
to add suppressive fires against the enemy.
7. The platoon sergeant repositions vehicles, as necessary, to provide observation and supporting fire against the
enemy.
* 8. The platoon leader assesses the situation.
9. The squad or section in contact cannot achieve suppressive fire. The squad or section in contact takes the following
actions:
a. Reports limited capabilities to effectively suppress enemy forces to the platoon leader.
b. Establishes a base of fire:
(1) The squad leader deploys the squad to provide effective, sustained fires on the enemy position.
(2) The squad leader reports the final position to the platoon leader.
10. The remaining squads, not in contact, take up covered and concealed positions in place[ and] observe to the flanks
and rear of the platoon.
* 11. The platoon leader determines if the squad in contact can gain suppressive fire against the enemy based on the
volume and accuracy of the enemy’s return fire[:]
a. The platoon leader directs the squad, with one or both machine guns, and vehicle element in contact to
continue suppressing the enemy:
(1) The squad in contact destroys or suppresses enemy weapons that are firing most effectively against it.
(2) The vehicle section in contact destroys or suppresses enemy weapons that were firing most effectively
against them, including vehicles and crew-served weapons.
(3) The squad in contact places screening smoke (M203 and M320) to prevent the enemy from seeing the
maneuver element.
b. The platoon leader determines additional actions required and deploys another squad, [a] second vehicle
section, and the second machine gun team to suppress the enemy position.
Note. The platoon leader may direct the trail leader to position this squad and vehicle section[ and
the] weapons squad leader to position one or both machine gun teams in a better support-by-fire
position.
* 12. The platoon leader, again, determines if the platoon can gain suppressive fires against the enemy:
a. The platoon leader continues to suppress the enemy with the two squads, two machine guns, and
vehicle-mounted weapons.
(1) The trail squad leader assumes control of the base-of-fire element (squad in contact, machine gun teams,
and any other squads designated by the platoon leader).
(2) The platoon sergeant assumes control of the vehicle section and base-of-fire element (squad in contact
and machine gun teams designated by the platoon leader).
(3) The platoon FO calls for and adjusts indirect fire based on the platoon leader’s directions.
Note. The platoon leader does not wait for indirect fires before continuing [with actions].

8-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
b. The platoon leader determines additional [actions required] and deploys the last squad to provide flank and
rear security and reports the situation to the company commander.
c. The platoon continues to suppress or fix the enemy with direct and indirect fire[ and] responds to orders from
the company commander.
13. The platoon assaults the enemy position. If the squads in contact together with the machine guns and vehicle
element can suppress the enemy, the platoon leader determines if the remaining squads that are not in contact
can maneuver:
a. The platoon leader makes the following assessment:
(1) Location of enemy positions and obstacles.
(2) Size of [the] enemy force. (The number of enemy automatic weapons, the presence of any vehicles, and
the employment of indirect fires are indicators of enemy strength.)
(3) Vulnerable flank.
(4) Covered and concealed flanking route to the enemy position.
b. The platoon leader maneuvers the squads into the assault:
(1) Once the platoon leader has ensured that the base-of-fire element is in position and providing suppressive
fires, [the platoon leader leads] the assaulting squads to the assault position.
(2) If the vehicle section can effectively suppress the enemy element, the platoon leader may reposition the
weapons squad or machine gun to an intermediate or local support-by-fire position to provide additional
suppression during the assault.
(3) Once in position, the platoon leader gives the prearranged signal for the base-of-fire element to lift or shift
direct fires to the opposite flank of the enemy position. (The assault element MUST pick up and maintain
effective fires throughout the assault. Handover of responsibility for direct fires from the base-of-fire
element to the assault element is critical.)
(4) The platoon FO shifts indirect fires to isolate the enemy position.
(5) The assaulting squad(s) fight through enemy positions using fire and maneuver. The platoon leader controls
the movement of the squads, assigns specific objectives for each squad, and designates the main effort or
base maneuver element. The base-of-fire element must be able to identify the near flank of the assaulting
squad(s).
(6) In the assault, the squad leader determines the way in which to move the elements of the squad based on
the volume and accuracy of enemy fire against the squad and the amount of cover afforded by the terrain.
In all cases, each Soldier uses individual movement techniques, as appropriate.
(a) The squad leader designates one fire team to support the movement of the other team by fires.
(b) The squad leader designates a distance or direction for the team to move and accompanies one of the
fire teams.
(c) Soldiers must maintain contact with team members and leaders.
(d) Soldiers time their firing and reloading in order to sustain their rate of fire.
(e) The moving fire team proceeds to the next covered position. Teams use the wedge formation when
assaulting. Soldiers move in rushes or by crawling.
(f) The squad leader directs the next team to move.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-9

Chapter 8
(g) If necessary, the team leader directs Soldiers to bound forward as individuals within buddy teams.
Soldiers coordinate their movement and fires with each other within the buddy team[ and] maintain
contact with their team leader.
(h) Soldiers fire from covered positions. They select the next covered position before moving and rush
forward (no more than five seconds), or [they] use high or low crawl techniques based on terrain and
enemy fires.
c. [When the] platoon leader determines the assaulting squad(s) cannot continue to move, the platoon leader
deploys the squad(s) to suppress the enemy and reports to the company commander. The platoon continues
suppressing enemy positions and responds to the orders of the company commander.
14. The platoon consolidates on the objective once the assaulting squads have seized the enemy positions by:
a. Establishing local security.
b. The platoon leader signals for the base-of-fire element to move up into designated positions.
c. The platoon leader assigns sectors of fire for each squad and vehicle.
d. The platoon leader positions key weapons and vehicles to cover the most dangerous avenue(s) of approach.
e. The platoon sergeant begins coordination for ammunition resupply.
f. Soldiers take hasty defensive positions.
g. The platoon leader and FO develop a quick fire plan.
h. Placing out observation posts to warn of enemy counterattacks.
15. The platoon reorganizes by:
a. Reestablishing the chain of command.
b. Redistributing and resupplying ammunition.
c. [Staffing] crew-served weapons first.
d. Redistributing critical equipment such as radios; [night-vision devices; and protection from chemical,
biological, radiological, and nuclear exposure].
e. Treating casualties and evacuating wounded.
f. Filling vacancies in key positions.
g. Searching, silencing, segregating, safeguarding, and speeding [enemy prisoners of war] to collection points.
h. Collecting and reporting enemy information and materiel.
* 16. The platoon leader sends a [situation report] to the company commander.

Conduct a Squad Assault (07-SQD-D9515)
Conditions: The squad is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a platoon or
larger force. The squad is part of a movement to contact or an attack. The enemy initiates direct fire contact. Some
iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The squad conducts an assault according to ATP 3-21.8. The squad locates and suppresses the enemy,
establishes supporting fire, and assaults the enemy positions using fire and maneuver. The squad destroys [the enemy]
or causes the enemy to withdraw and conducts consolidation and reorganization.
Cue: The drill begins when the enemy initiates direct fire contact.

8-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. The fire team in contact immediately returns well-aimed fire on the known enemy position and calls out the
direction and distance of the enemy.
Note. Soldiers receiving fire take up the nearest positions that afford cover and concealment.
* 2. The squad leader reports contact to the platoon leader.
3. The fire team in contact takes the following actions:
a. The team leader directs fires using tracers or standard fire commands.
b. Fire team Soldiers in contact move to positions (bound or crawl) where they can fire their weapons, position
themselves to ensure that they have observation, field of fire, cover, and concealment.
c. Fire team Soldiers continue to fire and report known or suspected enemy positions to the fire team leader.
4. The fire team not in contact takes covered and concealed positions in place and observes the flanks and rear of the
squad.
* 5. The squad leader moves to a position to observe the enemy and assess the situation and then [takes] the following
actions:
a. Reports the enemy size and location, and any other information to the platoon leader.
b. Requests through higher, immediate indirect fire support.
c. Determines if the fire team in contact can gain suppressive fire based on the volume and accuracy of the enemy
fire.
6. The fire team in contact suppresses the enemy and the following actions take place:
a. The team leader identifies target reference points with the squad leader for shifting fires.
b. The fire team becomes the support by fire team.
c. The fire team continues suppression of the enemy as follows:
(1) The fire team leader continues to control fires using tracers or standard fire commands. Fires must be
well-aimed and continue at a sustained rate with no lulls.
(2) The fire team destroys or suppresses enemy crew-served weapons first.
(3) The fire team places smoke (M203/320) on the enemy position to obscure it.
(4) Buddy teams alternate their fire so that both are not reloading their weapons at the same time.
* 7. The squad leader moves to the fire team not in contact[.]
Note. The fire team not in contact becomes the assault team.
a. [The squad leader links] up with the fire team leader not in contact.
b. [The squad leader identifies] the fire team not in contact as the assault team.
* 8. The squad leader maneuvers the assault fire team into the assault position and the following actions take place:
a. The squad leader adjusts fires (both direct and indirect) based on the rate of the assault element movement and
the minimum safe distances of weapon systems.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-11

Chapter 8
b. The squad leader directs the forward observer, if available, to shift indirect fire, including smoke, to isolate
the enemy position.
c. The squad leader gives the prearranged signal for the support by fire team to shift direct fire to the opposite
flank of the enemy position.
d. The assault fire team assumes and maintains effective fire throughout the assault.
e. The support by fire team confirms the shift of direct fires with the prearranged signal.
9. The assault team fights through the enemy position using fire and maneuver and takes the following actions:
a. The assault team leader controls the movement of the team.
b. The assault team conducts fire and maneuver based on [the] volume and accuracy of enemy fires and the amount
of cover afforded by the terrain as follows:
(1) Assault team leader designates a distance and direction for the assault team and moves with that element.
(2) Assault team leader directs Soldiers to move as individuals or teams.
(3) Soldiers maintain contact with team members and leaders.
(4) Soldiers move using 3- to 5-second rushes or the low or high crawl techniques, taking advantage of available
cover and concealment.
(5) Soldiers time their firing and reloading to sustain their rate of fire.
10. The support by fire team maintains visual contact of the near flank of the assaulting team as the assaulting team
conducts the assault.
11. If the assault element cannot continue to move, the squad leader positions the squad to suppress the enemy and
reports to higher headquarters.
12. The squad consolidates and reorganizes as follows:
a. The squad establishes local security.
b. The squad leader signals for the support by fire team to move into designated positions.
c. The squad places out observation posts to warn of enemy counterattacks.
d. The squad leader assigns sectors of fire for each element.
e. The Soldiers establish hasty fighting positions.
f. The squad leader positions key weapons to cover the most dangerous avenue of approach.
g. The squad leader develops a quick fire plan.
h. The squad reestablishes the chain of command.
i. The squad [staffs] crew-served weapons and then individual weapons.
j. The squad leader begins coordination of ammunition resupply.
k. The squad leader consolidates ammunition, casualties and equipment reports.
l. The squad redistributes and resupplies ammunition.
m. The squad redistributes critical equipment such as radios, [night-vision devices, and protection from chemical,
biological, radiological, and nuclear exposure].
n. The squad treats and [evacuates] wounded.
o. The squad searches, silences, segregates, safeguards, speeds, and tags detainees.
* 13. The squad leader reports situation to the platoon leader.

8-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

Break Contact – Platoon (07-PLT-D9505)
Conditions: The platoon is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a company
or larger force. The platoon is moving as part of a larger force, conducting a movement to contact or an attack. Following
direct fire contact with the enemy, the platoon leader decides to break contact. Indirect fires are available. Some
iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The platoon breaks contact according to ATP 3-21.8. Using fire, movement and maneuver, the platoon
continues to move until the enemy cannot observe or place fire on them. The platoon leader reports the contact.
Cue: The drill begins when the platoon leader orders the platoon to break contact.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
* 1. While receiving direct fire from the enemy or on orders, the platoon leader orders the platoon to break contact.
* 2. The platoon leader directs one squad or fire team to suppress by fire to support the disengagement of the
remainder of the platoon.
* 3. The platoon leader orders a distance and direction, terrain feature, or last rally point of the movement of the
platoon element in contact.
Note. This distance should not exceed small arms range to ensure supporting fire.
* 4. The platoon leader employs direct fires to suppress enemy positions. (See figure 8-5 on page 8-14.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-13

Chapter 8

Figure 8-5. Platoon’s direct and indirect fires to suppress enemy
5. The moving element moves to occupy the overwatch position, employs smoke (M203/M320, smoke grenades,
indirect fires, and other options) to screen movement.
Note. If necessary, [the bounding element] employs fragmentation and concussion grenades to
facilitate breaking contact.
6. The base-of-fire element continues to suppress the enemy.
8-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

7. The moving element occupies their overwatch position and engages enemy positions. (See figure 8-6.)

Figure 8-6. Moving element’s overwatch and enemy engagement

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-15

Chapter 8
* 8. The platoon leader directs the base-of-fire element to move to its next covered and concealed position. (See
figure 8-7.)
Note. Based on the terrain[ and the] volume and accuracy of the enemy’s fire, the moving element
may need to use fire and movement techniques.

Figure 8-7. Fire and movement techniques
8-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
[9.] The platoon continues to move away from the enemy until:
a. It breaks contact (the platoon must continue to suppress the enemy as it breaks contact).
b. Its elements are in the assigned positions to continue the mission.
* 10. Leaders account for Soldiers, report the situation, reorganize as necessary, and continue the mission.
* 11. The platoon leader moves the platoon onto an azimuth or alternate route away from enemy forces.
Note. The platoon leader should consider changing the unit’s direction of movement once contact
is broken. This reduces the ability of the enemy to place effective indirect fire on the platoon.
12. Squads and Teams that become divided stay together and move to the last designated rally point.

Break Contact – Squad (07-SQD-D9505)
Conditions: The squad is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a platoon or
larger force. The squad is moving as part of a larger force, conducting a movement to contact or an attack. Following
direct fire contact with the enemy, the squad leader decides to break contact. Some iterations of this task should be
performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The squad breaks contact according to ATP 3-21.8. Using fire and movement, the squad continues to move
until the enemy cannot observe or place fire on them. The squad leader reports the contact.
Cue: The drill begins when the squad leader orders the squad to break contact.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
* 1. While receiving direct fire from the enemy or on orders, the squad leader orders the squad to break contact.
* 2. The squad leader directs one team to suppress by fire to support the disengagement of the remainder of the squad.
* 3. The squad leader orders a distance and direction, terrain feature, or last rally point of the movement of the team
in contact.
Note. This distance should not exceed small arms range to ensure supporting fire.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-17

Chapter 8
* 4. The squad leader employs direct fires to suppress enemy positions. (See figure 8-8.)

Figure 8-8. Squad’s direct fire to suppress enemy
5. The moving team moves to occupy the overwatch position, employs smoke (M203/M320, smoke grenades, and
other options) to screen movement.
Note. If necessary, [the moving team] employs fragmentation and concussion grenades to facilitate
breaking contact.

8-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
6. The base-of-fire team continues to suppress the enemy.
7. The moving team occupies their overwatch position and engages enemy positions. (See figure 8-9.)

Figure 8-9. Moving team’s overwatch and enemy engagement

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-19

Chapter 8
* 8. The squad leader directs the base-of-fire team to move to its next covered and concealed position. (See
figure 8-10.)
Note. Based on the terrain[ and the] volume and accuracy of the enemy’s fire, the moving team may
need to use fire and movement techniques.

Figure 8-10. Moving team’s fire and movement techniques

8-20

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

9. The squad continues to move away from the enemy until:
a. It breaks contact (the squad must continue to suppress the enemy as it breaks contact).
b. Its teams are in the assigned positions to continue the mission.
* 10. Leaders account for Soldiers, report the situation, reorganize as necessary, and continue the mission.
* 11. The squad leader moves the squad onto an azimuth or alternate route away from enemy forces.
Note. The squad leader should consider changing the unit’s direction of movement once contact is
broken. This reduces the ability of the enemy to place effective indirect fire on the squad.
12. Teams and Soldiers that become divided stay together and move to the last designated rally point.

React to Ambush (Dismounted) – Platoon (07-PLT-D9502)
Conditions: The platoon is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a company
or larger force. The platoon is moving tactically dismounted in close terrain. The platoon moves into an
[enemy-prepared] kill zone. The enemy initiates contact with the most casualty-producing weapon or detonation of
explosives and a high volume of well-aimed fire from covered and concealed positions. Indirect fire is available. Some
iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards:
The platoon reacts to an ambush according to ATP 3-21.8.
If a Near Ambush, then Soldiers in the kill zone immediately return fire on known or suspected enemy positions and
assault through the kill zone. Soldiers not in the kill zone locate and place well-aimed suppressive fire on the enemy.
The platoon assaults through the kill zone and destroys the enemy.
If a Far Ambush, then Soldiers in the kill zone immediately return fire on known or suspected enemy positions and
suppress the enemy. Soldiers not in the kill zone assault the enemy using fire and movement. The platoon assaults
through the kill zone and destroys the enemy.
Cue: The drill begins when the enemy initiates an ambush.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. The platoon is moving dismounted, receives a high volume of well-aimed fire from the enemy, and takes the
following actions (see figure 8-11 on page 8-22).

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-21

Chapter 8

Figure 8-11. Enemy fire upon platoon

8-22

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
a. React to a Near Ambush in which the enemy is within hand grenade range:
(1) The teams/squads in the kill zone execute one of the following two actions:
(a) Return fire immediately, and if cover is not available, without order or signal immediately assume the
prone position, and throw smoke grenades.
(b) Return fire immediately and, if cover is available, without order or signal, occupy the nearest covered
position, immediately assume the prone position, and throw smoke grenades. (See figure 8-12.)

Figure 8-12. Platoon’s immediate return fire

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-23

Chapter 8
(2) The teams/squads in the kill zone, immediately after the explosion of the smoke grenades, assault through
the ambush position using fire and movement.
(3) The teams/squads not in the kill zone identify the enemy location, place well-aimed suppressive fire on the
enemy’s position, and shift fire as Soldiers assault the objective.
(4) The Soldiers/team in the kill zone continue to assault through and destroy the enemy position. (See
figure 8-13.)

Figure 8-13. Platoon’s assault through enemy positions
b. React to a Far Ambush in which the enemy is beyond hand grenade range:
(1) Teams/squads receiving fire immediately return fire, seek cover, and place well-aimed suppressive fire on
the enemy’s position.
(2) [The squad leader or platoon leader leads the teams/squads] not receiving fire along a covered and concealed
route to the enemy’s flank to assault the enemy using fire and movement.

8-24

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
(3) Teams/squads in the kill zone shift suppressive fires as the assaulting Soldiers fight through and destroy the
enemy.
(4) The platoon leader calls for and adjusts indirect fire according to [the METT-TC (I) variables: mission,
enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time available, civil considerations, and
informational considerations].
* 2. The platoon leader reports the contact.

React to Ambush (Dismounted) – Squad (07-SQD-D9502)
Conditions: The squad is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a platoon or
larger force. The squad is moving tactically dismounted in close terrain. The squad moves into an [enemy-prepared]
kill zone. The enemy initiates contact with the most casualty-producing weapon or detonation of explosives and a high
volume of well-aimed fire from covered and concealed positions. Some iterations of this task should be performed with
MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards:
The squad reacts to an ambush according to ATP 3-21.8.
If a Near Ambush, then Soldiers in the kill zone immediately return fire on known or suspected enemy positions and
assault through the kill zone. Soldiers not in the kill zone locate and place well-aimed suppressive fire on the enemy.
The squad assaults through the kill zone and destroys the enemy.
If a Far Ambush, then Soldiers in the kill zone immediately return fire on known or suspected enemy positions and
suppress the enemy. Soldiers not in the kill zone assault the enemy using fire and movement. The squad assaults through
the kill zone and destroys the enemy.
Cue: The drill begins when the enemy initiates an ambush.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. The squad is moving dismounted, receives a high volume of well-aimed enemy fire, and takes the following actions
(see figure 8-14 on page 8-26.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-25

Chapter 8

Figure 8-14. Enemy fire upon squad
a. React to a Near Ambush in which the enemy is within hand grenade range:
(1) The Soldiers/team in the kill zone execute one of the following two actions:
(a) Return fire immediately, and if cover is not available, without order or signal immediately assume the
prone position, and throw smoke grenades.
(b) Return fire immediately and, if cover is available, without order or signal, occupy the nearest covered
position, immediately assume the prone position, and throw smoke grenades. (See figure 8-15.)

8-26

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

Figure 8-15. Squad’s immediate return fire
(2) The Soldiers/team in the kill zone, immediately after the explosion of the smoke grenades, assault through
the ambush position using fire and movement.
(3) The Soldiers/team not in the kill zone identify the enemy location, place well-aimed suppressive fire on the
enemy’s position, and shift fire as Soldiers assault the objective.
(4) The Soldiers/team in the kill zone continue to assault through and destroy the enemy position. (See
figure 8-16 on page 8-28.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-27

Chapter 8

Figure 8-16. Squad’s assault through enemy positions
b. React to a Far Ambush in which the enemy is beyond hand grenade range.
(1) Soldiers/team receiving fire immediately return fire, seek cover, and place well-aimed suppressive fire on
the enemy’s position.
(2) [The team leader or squad leader leads the Soldiers/team] not receiving fire along a covered and concealed
route to the enemy’s flank to assault the enemy using fire and movement.
(3) Soldiers/team in the kill zone shift suppressive fire as the assaulting Soldiers fight through and destroy the
enemy.
* 2. The squad leader reports the contact.
8-28

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

DANGER
Do not attempt to cook off or milk any grenade type.
Cooking off or milking the safety lever before
employment can result in personnel death or serious
injury.
When walls or floors are thin or damaged and
grenades are in play, falling or exploding fragments
can kill or seriously injure Soldiers.

Enter and Clear a Room – Squad (07-SQD-D9509)
Conditions: The squad is conducting operations in a live training environment as part of a platoon or larger force. The
squad receives an order to clear a room. Enemy personnel are believed to be in the building. Noncombatants may be
present in the building and are possibly intermixed with the enemy personnel. The squad has support and security
elements positioned at the initial foothold and outside the building. Some iterations of this task should be performed
MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The squad enters and clears a room according to ATP 3-21.8. The squad clears and secures the room by
killing or capturing the enemy while minimizing friendly casualties, noncombatant casualties, and collateral damage.
The squad complies with the rules of engagement (ROE), maintains a sufficient fighting force to repel an enemy
counterattack, and continues operations.
Cue: This drill begins on the order of the squad leader to enter and clear a room.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
* 1. The squad leader—
a. Occupies a position to best control the security and clearing teams.
b. Directs a security team to secure corridors or hallways outside the room with appropriate firepower.
c. Identifies the entry point.
d. Gives the clearing team leader an order to clear the room.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-29

Chapter 8
Note. If the squad is conducting high-intensity operations and grenades are being used, the unit must
comply with the ROE and consider the building structure. A Soldier of the clearing team prepares
at least one grenade (fragmentation, concussion, or stun grenade), throws the grenade into the room,
and announces: FRAG OUT or STUN OUT. The use of grenades should be consistent with the ROE
and building structure. Soldiers can be injured from fragments if walls and floors are thin or
damaged.
* 2. The team leader (normally the number two Soldier) does the following:
a. Takes a position to best control the clearing team outside the room.
b. Determines the method of entry into the room.
c. Gives the signal to enter and clear the room.
3. The first two Soldiers enter the room with the second Soldier immediately after the first Soldier as follows: (See
figure 8-17.)

Figure 8-17. Clearing a room—first Soldier immediately followed by second Soldier
a. The first Soldier enters the room, moves left or right along the path of least resistance to one of two corners, and
assumes a position of domination facing into the room. During movement, the Soldier scans the sector and
eliminates all immediate threats.
b. The second Soldier (normally the clearing team leader) enters the room immediately after the first Soldier and
moves in the opposite direction of the first Soldier to a point of domination. During movement, the Soldier
eliminates all immediate threats in the sector.
8-30

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills
Note. During high-intensity combat, the Soldiers enter immediately after the grenade detonates.
Both Soldiers enter while firing aimed bursts into their sectors, engaging all threats or hostile targets
to cover their entry.
If the first or second Soldier discovers the room is small or a short room (such as a closet or
bathroom), [the Soldier] announces SHORT ROOM or SHORT. The clearing team leader informs
the third and fourth Soldiers whether or not to stay outside the room or to enter.
4. The third Soldier moves in the opposite direction of the second Soldier while scanning and clearing the sector and
assuming the point of domination. (See figure 8-18.)

Figure 8-18. Clearing a room—third Soldier enters room and clears sector

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-31

Chapter 8
5. The fourth Soldier moves opposite of the third Soldier to a position dominating a sector. (See figure 8-19.)

Figure 8-19. Clearing a room–fourth Soldier enters room and clears sector
6. All Soldiers engage enemy combatants with precision-aimed fire and identify noncombatants to avoid collateral
damage.
Note. If necessary or on order, number one and number two Soldiers of the clearing team may move
deeper into the room while overwatched by the other team members.
* 7. The clearing team leader scans and clears the room by—
a. Ensuring all threats are neutralized.
b. Ensuring all noncombatants are secured.
c. Announcing, CLEAR to the squad leader when the room is clear.
d. Establishing security.
* 8. The squad leader directs the security team to continue to secure the corridor or hallway.
* 9. The squad leader enters the room and—
a. Makes a quick assessment of the room and threat.
b. Determines if the squad has firepower to continue clearing their assigned sector.
c. Reports to the platoon leader that the room is clear.
d. Requests needed sustainment to continue clearing the squad’s sector.
e. Marks entry point according to the unit [standard operating procedure].
10. The squad consolidates and reorganizes, as needed.

8-32

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Battle Drills

React to Indirect Fire While Dismounted – Platoon (07-PLT-D9504)
Conditions: The platoon is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a company
or larger force. The platoon is dismounted. While stationary or moving, a member of the platoon alerts, INCOMING or
a round impacts nearby. Some iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The platoon reacts to indirect fire while dismounted according to ATP 3-21.8. Soldiers immediately seek
the best available cover. The platoon moves out of the area to the designated rally point after the impacts. The platoon
leader reports the contact.
Cue: The drill begins when any platoon member alerts, INCOMING or a round impacts nearby.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. A member of the platoon hears or observes artillery impacting near the platoon and alerts the platoon with the
announcement, INCOMING!
2. Soldiers immediately assume the prone position or immediately move to nearby available cover during initial
impacts. (See figure 8-20.)

Figure 8-20. Soldiers’ reaction to indirect fire
* 3. The platoon leader orders the platoon to move to a rally point by giving a direction and distance.
4. Soldiers move rapidly in the direction and distance to the designated rally point and reestablish security after the
impact.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

8-33

Chapter 8
5. Leaders regain accountability of their Soldiers, weapons, and equipment at the rally point and treat casualties as
required.
* 6. The platoon leader reports the contact.

React to Indirect Fire While Dismounted – Squad (07-SQD-D9504)
Conditions: The squad is conducting operations in a live training environment independently or as part of a platoon or
larger force. The squad is dismounted. While stationary or moving, a member of the squad alerts, INCOMING, or a
round impacts nearby. Some iterations of this task should be performed in MOPP 4 and at night.
Standards: The squad reacts to indirect fire while dismounted according to ATP 3-21.8. Soldiers immediately seek the
best available cover. The squad moves out of the area to the designated rally point after the impacts. The squad leader
reports the contact.
Cue: The drill begins when any squad member alerts, INCOMING, or a round impacts nearby.
TASK STEPS
(Asterisks [indicate] a leader performance step.)
1. A member of the squad hears or observes artillery impacting near the squad and alerts the squad with the
announcement, INCOMING!
2. Soldiers immediately assume the prone position or immediately move to nearby available cover during initial
impacts. [See figure 8-20 on page 8-33.]
* 3. The squad leader orders the squad to move to a rally point by giving a direction and distance.
4. Soldiers move rapidly in the direction and distance to the designated rally point and reestablish security after the
impacts.
5. Leaders regain accountability of their Soldiers, weapons, and equipment at the rally point and treat casualties as
required.
* 6. The squad leader reports the action.

8-34

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 9
Military Mountaineering
In the mountains, commanders face the challenge of maintaining their units’ combat
effectiveness and efficiency. (See TC 3-97.61 for information on military
mountaineering.)

TRAINING AND PLANNING
9-1. Military mountaineering training provides units with tactical mobility in otherwise inaccessible
mountainous terrain. Rangers receive training in the fundamental mobility and climbing skills units need to
move safely and efficiently in mountainous terrain.
9-2. Rangers who are to conduct combat operations in a mountainous environment receive extensive training
to prepare them for the rigor of mountain operations. Some of the areas follow:
• Mountainous environment characteristics.
• Basic mountaineering equipment care and use.
• Mountain bivouac techniques.
• Mountain communications.
• Mountain travel and walking techniques.
• Mountain navigation, hazard recognition, and route selection.
• Rope management and knots.
• Natural and artificial anchors.
• Belay and rappel techniques.
• Installation construction and use such as rope bridges.
• Rock climbing fundamentals.
• CASEVAC raising and lowering systems.
• Individual movement on snow and ice.
• Mountain stream crossings including water survival techniques.
9-3. Unique planning considerations for mountain operations include movement and insertion techniques,
methods of reducing the enemy’s ability to observe, identification of likely enemy positions, and possible
ambush and contact locations in the development of movement techniques, routes, and actions on contact in
compartmentalized and canalized terrain.
9-4. Planning also takes into consideration possible degraded reaction times from other ground units and
challenges for sustainment functions (for example, resupply, MEDEVAC, CASEVAC). Plans also factor in
possible climate changes to weather, precipitation, wind, and temperature, which can occur quickly and have
extreme impact.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-1

Chapter 9

DISMOUNTED MOBILITY
9-5. One requirement of Ranger military mountaineers is to assess a vertical obstacle and develop a COA to
overcome the obstacle. They also possess the skills to accomplish the plan. Assessment of a vertical obstacle
requires understanding of route classifications and the levels of difficulty they represent. Without a solid
understanding of the difficulty of a chosen route, mountain leaders can place their lives and the lives of other
Soldiers in extreme danger. Ignorance is the most dangerous hazard in the mountainous environment.
9-6. Mountain operations require physically fit Soldiers and leaders experienced in operations in this terrain.
Problems arise in moving personnel and transporting loads up and down steep and varied terrain to accomplish
the mission. Chances for success in this environment increase when leaders have experience operating in the
same conditions as their troops. Acclimatization, conditioning, and training are important to successful military
mountaineering. Table 9-1 is useful when deciding the platoon’s movement formation and techniques during
the planning process.
Table 9-1. Terrain classification considerations
TERRAIN

1

Gentle slopes or
trails

Walking

No special training; general
environmental acclimatization only.

None

2

Steeper, rugged

Walking with some
required use of hands

Recommended environmental
acclimatization.
Unit movement, standard operating
procedure, or battle drill training on steep
terrain.

Basic
mountaineering
helpful but not
required

3

Easy to climb or
scramble over

Easy climbing with
fixed ropes where
exposed or risking a
fall

Environmental acclimatization.
Soldier load management.
Unit movement, standard operating
procedure, or battle drill training on steep
terrain.
Unit movement on fixed lines.

Basic
mountaineering
to place simple
fixed ropes and
installations

4

Steep, exposed

Requiring fixed ropes

Extensive environmental
acclimatization.
Soldier load management.
Unit movement, standard operating
procedure, battle drill training on steep
terrain.
Unit movement on fixed lines.
Negotiation of near vertical obstacles.
Route selection.

Basic
mountaineering
plus assault
climbing to
establish
anchors, fixed
ropes, and
hauling
systems

9-2

MOBILITY

REQUISITE
SKILL LEVEL

CLASS

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
Table 9-1. Terrain classification considerations (continued)
CLASS

TERRAIN

MOBILITY

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

REQUISITE
SKILL LEVEL

5

Near vertical to
vertical

Technical climbing

Extensive environmental
acclimatization.
Extensive Soldier load management.
Assault climbing.
Technical rope rescue.
Rope ascending and descending.

Recommended
assault
climbing to
advise
commanders
and supervise
complex rope
systems

TASK ORGANIZATION
9-7. Leaders take special consideration when task-organizing a Ranger platoon in a mountainous environment.
Leaders plan for such specific teams as CASEVAC teams, reconnaissance and installation teams, and security
teams specific to any potentially encountered obstacle. Leaders also consider who are the strong swimmers and
climbers and what climbing-level-qualified mountaineers are within the platoon.
9-8. Upon completion of task organization, the platoon organizes and consolidates all rescue and
mountaineering equipment.

RESCUE EQUIPMENT
9-9. Rangers use a litter system that functions like a standard basket-type litter but is more compact,
lightweight, and versatile. The stretcher is made of low-density polyethylene plastic with solid brass grommets,
nylon webbing, and steel buckles.
9-10. The system not including taglines weighs 19 pounds (8.6 kilograms) when packed inside the carrying case.
When packed, the case is 9 inches (23 centimeters) in diameter and 36 inches (91 centimeters) in length. The
system withstands extreme temperatures including extremely cold weather (down to minus 120 degrees
Fahrenheit [49 degrees Celsius]) and does not begin to melt until 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius).
9-11. When possible, link up with the aviation support unit to discuss the unit’s SOPs and conduct rehearsals.
Components of the litter system include the following:
• Stretcher.
• Nylon backpack.
• Horizontal lift slings with 10,000-pound (4,536-kilogram) tensile strength.
• Vertical lift sling with 5,800-pound (2,631-kilogram) tensile strength.
• Locking, steel carabiner with 9,000-pound (4,082-kilogram) tensile strength.
• Tow strap with 300-pound (136-kilogram) tensile strength.
• Four webbing handles with 300-pound (136-kilogram) tensile strength.
9-12. The litter system has different loading procedures.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-3

Chapter 9
a. Unpack and unroll the rescue litter.
b. Bend the litter backward and in half to make it lie flat.
c. Place a patient in the litter by one of two methods.
(1) For the logroll method, load a casualty when the stabilization of the patient’s entire body is critical.
(a) Place the litter next to the patient.
(b) Roll the patient onto one side and slide the litter as far under the patient as possible.
(c) Roll the patient onto the litter and carefully slide the patient into the litter’s center.
(d) Secure the patient to the litter.
(2) For the slide method, load a casualty when the injuries prevent rolling the patient onto one side and
when confined spaces prevent the use of the logroll method.
(a) Place the foot end of the stretcher at the patient’s head.
(b) One person straddles the stretcher and supports the patient’s head, neck, and shoulders.
(c) Two people grab straps and pull the stretcher under the patient while slightly lifting the patient’s
head and shoulders.
9-13. Carefulness protects the casualty from potential environmental injuries. Practices include wrapping the
patient in a space blanket and sleeping bag during cold weather operations and monitoring potential overheating
in hot weather operations. The procedure to fasten straps and buckles follows.
a. Lift the sides of the stretcher and fasten the straps to their complementary buckles.
b. Feed the foot straps through the unused buckles at the foot of the stretcher and fasten to the buckles.
c. After placing and strapping the patient securely in the litter, lace the stretcher with the 30-foot lift sling
of kernmantle rope. The lacing provides additional security to the litter, and the fixed loop created by
the double figure eight knot serves as the point of attachment for lifting or lowering the stretcher.
9-14. A vertical lift is useful on sloping terrain and when the canopy prevents a horizontal lift. When rigging
this lift, remember this type of lift forces the weight of the casualty’s body onto the lower extremities. The
procedure to make a vertical lift follows.
a. Create a fixed loop in the middle of the rope by tying a double figure eight knot.
b. Pass the tails through the grommet on either side of the patient’s head and snug the knot against the
stretcher.
c. Feed the ropes through the grommets along the sides, pass through the handles and through the
grommets at the foot end of the stretcher, and secure with a square knot.
d. Route the pigtails through the lower carrying handles (outside to inside) and secure the ends. The litter
is towable by the tow handle strap hauling system. It is ready for lifting or lowering.
9-15. When rigging for a horizontal lift, remember the head strap is 4 inches (10 centimeters) shorter than the
foot strap. The horizontal lift position is preferrable for lifting or lowering. The correct rigging and closing of
the litter render it impossible for the casualty to fall accidentally from the stretcher.
9-16. Horizontal is the most stable platform for the casualty since the stretcher absorbs all the casualty’s weight.
Control taglines are also easily employable and much more efficient, reducing spin in horizontal lifts. Lifting
horizontally requires the use of two (head and foot) lift straps rated at 9,000 pounds each, thereby creating
redundant attaching points. The head strap is 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 centimeters) shorter than the foot strap to
ensure the patient’s head remains slightly raised. The procedure to make a horizontal lift follows.
a. Insert one end of the head strap through the slot at the head end of the stretcher.
b. Route the strap under the stretcher and then through the slot on the opposite side.
9-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
c. Repeat with the foot strap at the foot end of the stretcher.
d. Equalize the weight on all the straps and insert one steel carabiner through the sewn loops on all four
straps.
e. Ensure the removal of the horizontal lift straps whenever the stretcher is to be dragged. This prevents
damage to the straps.
9-17. Upon the completion of proper rigging, the stretcher is ready to lift. The procedure to ascend vertical
terrain with a casualty follows.
a. Secure the casualty in a stretcher for carrying and dragging.
b. Secure the casualty in a stretcher for horizontal and vertical helicopter evacuation.
c. Task-organize a platoon for moving a casualty to include a carrying squad, security squads, machine
guns, and key leaders. The PL focuses on the entire tactical situation while controlling the platoon.
Rotate the carrying squad when they are moving the casualty over a long distance. The PSG controls
the CASEVAC.
d. Establish the primary anchor with a sling rope and two opposite and opposed carabiners and the
secondary anchor for the six- to eight-wrap Prusik safety.
e. Have teams move ahead to set up anchors that expedite moving the casualty up multiple pitches.
9-18. The procedure to descend vertical terrain with a casualty follows.
a. Lower the casualty on a Munter hitch (see paragraph 9-40) with a six- to eight-wrap Prusik safety (see
paragraph 9-42).
b. Everyone else rappels down, and the last person configures a retrievable rappel.
c. Teams move down and establish anchors to expedite the lowering when there are multiple pitches or
rope lengths.

MOUNTAINEERING EQUIPMENT
9-19. Mountaineering equipment refers to all the parts and pieces that allow the trained Ranger to accomplish
many tasks in the mountains. The importance of this gear to the mountaineer is no less than that of the rifle to
the Infantry Soldier.
9-20. Army mountaineering kits comprise three separate but integrated kits with state-of-the-art, commercial
equipment that meets the highest industry standards. The separate kits enable the commander to tailor the
equipment to the mission’s environment.
a. The high angle mountaineering kit is designed for a minimally trained Infantry brigade combat team
platoon (40 personnel) moving on rope installations that assault climbers emplaced through steep
terrain void of ice or snow. This kit provides each Soldier in the platoon with a harness, locking and
nonlocking carabiners, sewn webbing runners, 7-millimeter accessory cord, and a belay/rappel device.
There are also static installation ropes, a rope cutter, and a rope washer.
b. A trained assault climber team (three personnel) uses the assault climber team kit to establish rope
installations that minimally trained Soldiers using the high angle mountaineering kit then traverse. The
assault climber team kit provides each Soldier of the assault climber team with a harness, locking and
nonlocking carabiners, sewn webbing runners, mechanical ascenders, chock pick, assault climber bag,
7-millimeter accessory cord, and a belay/rappel device. There are also dynamic climbing ropes and
rock protection equipment including spring-loaded camming devices and chocks.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-5

Chapter 9
c. An Infantry platoon trained in techniques for operating in steep terrain covered by snow or ice uses the
snow and ice mobility kit. This kit provides each Soldier in the platoon with an avalanche transceiver,
crampons, ice axe, and snowshoes. Included are also avalanche shovels, probes, and ice and snow
anchors.
ROPES AND CORDS
9-21. Ropes and cords are the most important pieces of mountaineering equipment, and proper selection deserves
careful thought. These items are a lifeline in the mountains, so selecting the right type and size is of utmost
importance. All ropes and cord used in mountaineering and climbing today possess the same basic configuration.
This is the kernmantle construction technique, which is essentially a woven sheath protecting a core of nylon
fibers—similar to parachute cord.
9-22. Ropes come in two types: static and dynamic. Their types refer to their ability to stretch under tension. A
static rope has very little stretch, perhaps as little as 1 to 2 percent, and is most useful in rope installations. A
dynamic rope is most useful for climbing and general mountaineering. Its ability to stretch up to one-third of its
overall length makes it the right choice any time the user is at risk of falling. Dynamic and static ropes come in
various diameters and lengths. For most military applications, a standard 10.5- or 11-millimeter by 50-meter
(164-foot) dynamic rope and 11-millimeter by 45-meter (148-foot) static rope is sufficient.
9-23. A short section of static rope or static cord is called a sling rope or cordelette. These are critical pieces of
personal equipment in mountaineering operations. The diameter usually ranges from 7 to 8 millimeters and the
length extends up to 21 feet (6.5 meters). 8 millimeters by 15 feet (4.5 meters) is the minimum Ranger standard.
9-24. Cordage or small-diameter rope is indispensable to the mountaineer. Its many uses make it a valuable piece
of equipment. All cord is static, and its construction is of the same manner as that of larger rope.
9-25. Rope used daily remains employed no longer than 1 year. An occasionally used rope generally remains
employed up to 5 years with proper care (as follows).
a. Inspect ropes thoroughly before, during, and after use for cuts, frays, abrasions, mildew, and soft or
worn spots.
b. Never step on a rope or unnecessarily drag it on the ground.
c. Avoid running a rope over sharp or rough edges; pad as necessary.
d. Keep ropes away from oils, acids, and other corrosive substances.
e. Avoid running ropes across one another under tension. For example, nylon-to-nylon contact damages
ropes.
f. Do not leave ropes knotted or under tension longer than necessary.
g. Clean in cool water, loosely coil, and hang to dry out of direct sunlight. Ultraviolet light harms
synthetic fibers. When the rope is wet, hang it to drip-dry at room temperature on a rounded wooden
peg. Do not apply heat.
Webbing and Slings
9-26. Loops of tubular webbing or cord, called slings or runners, are the simplest pieces of equipment and some
of the most useful. Their uses are seemingly endless, the most critical being their use as the link between the
climber, rope, carabiners, and anchors. Manufacturers make runners predominately from 9/16-inch or 1-inch
tubular webbing and tie or sew them.
9-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-27. The carabiner is one of the most versatile pieces of equipment available in the mountains. This simple
piece of gear is the critical connection between the climber, rope, and protection that is attaching the climber to
the mountain. Carabiners must be strong enough to hold hard falls yet light enough for the climber to carry a
quantity of them easily. Today’s highly technical metal alloys allow carabiners to meet both these requirements.
Steel carabiners are still widely in use by the military, but those made of lighter and stronger materials are
replacing them. Basic carabiner construction affords several different shapes.
9-28. Protection is the generic term for a piece of equipment (natural or artificial) that is useful for constructing
an anchor. Protection unites with a climber, belayer, and climbing rope to form the lifeline of the climbing team.
The rope connects two climbers, and the protection connects them to the rock or ice. Figure 9-1 depicts
removable artificial protection such as stoppers and spring-loaded camming devices. Figure 9-2 on page 9-8
depicts fixed (usually permanent) artificial protection.

Figure 9-1. Examples of traditional (removable) protection used on rocks

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-7

Chapter 9

Figure 9-2. Examples of fixed (permanent or semipermanent) protection used on rocks
Equipment Inspection
9-29. Ropes require inspection before, during, and after each use, especially when employed around loose rock
or sharp edges. Although the core of kernmantle rope is not visible, it can sustain damage separate from and
without damage to the sheath. Check kernmantle rope by carefully inspecting the sheath before and after use
while coiling the rope. When coiling, be aware of how the rope feels as it runs through the hands. Immediately
note and tie off any palpable lumps or depressions. Carabiners and hardware also require inspection before,
during, and after each use. The inspection looks for opening gates to open and close freely and for the absence
of rust and corrosion. A fine file is useful for smoothing sharp edges or burrs.
Anchors
9-30. Anchors are the base for all installations and roped mountaineering techniques. Anchors must be strong
enough to support the entire weight of the loads or impacts they take. The incorporation of several pieces of
artificial or natural protection together composes one multipoint anchor. Anchors are classified artificial or
natural.
a. Artificial anchor construction uses all artificial materials. The most common anchors incorporate
traditional or fixed protection. (See figure 9-3.)

9-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering

Figure 9-3. Example of a three-point, pre-equalized anchor using fixed artificial protection
b. Natural anchors are usually very strong and often simple to construct using minimal equipment. Trees,
shrubs, and boulders are the most common. All natural anchors require naught more than a simple
method of attaching a rope. Regardless of the type of natural anchor used, the anchor must be strong
enough to support the entire weight of the load.
(1) Trees are probably the most widely used of all anchors. In rocky terrain, trees usually have a very
shallow root system. Check this by pushing or tugging on the tree to see how well rooted it is.
Anchor as low as possible to prevent excess leverage on the tree. Use padding on soft,
sap-producing trees to keep sap off ropes and slings.
c. Rock projections and boulders must be heavy enough and have a stable enough base to support the
load.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-9

Chapter 9
d. If no more suitable anchor is available than bushes or shrubs, route a rope around the bases of
several bushes. As with trees, place the anchoring rope as low as possible to reduce leverage on
the anchor. Ensure all the vegetation is healthy and well rooted to the ground.
e. A tensionless anchor is useful on high-load installations such as bridging. The wraps of the rope
around the anchor (see figure 9-4) absorb the tension of the installation and keep the tension off
the knot and carabiner. Tie it with a minimum of four wraps around the anchor, and note that a
smooth anchor such as a small tree, pipe, or rail sometimes requires several more wraps. Wrap the
rope from top to bottom. Place a fixed loop into the end of the rope and loosely attach it back onto
the rope with a carabiner.

Figure 9-4. Example of tensionless, natural anchor
KNOTS
9-31. Proficiency with knots and rope is vitally important for Rangers, especially in mountaineering situations.
Familiarity with the terminology associated with knots and rope in general is critical. (See figure 9-5.) These
terms include the following:
• Running or working end — the loose, or working, end of the rope.
• Standing end — the static, stationary, or nonworking end of the rope.
• Bight — an open eyelet of rope created by placing the running end alongside the standing end.
• Loop — a closed eyelet of rope created by placing the running end across the standing end.
• Overhand knot — formed by creating an eyelet and inserting the free running end through it.
9-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
•
•
•
•
•

Half hitch — an overhand knot tied around an object with the pigtail pulled perpendicular to the
standing end.
Pigtail — the portion of the running end of the rope between the safety knot and the end of the rope.
Turn — formed by passing the running end of a rope 360 degrees around an object.
Round turn — formed by wrapping the rope around an object 1-1/2 times. A round turn is useful for
distributing the load over a small-diameter anchor (3 inches [8 centimeters] or narrower). It is also
useful around larger diameter anchors to reduce the tension on the knot or provide additional friction.
Dress — the proper arrangement of all the knot parts, removing unnecessary kinks, twists, and slack
so all the rope parts of the knot make contact.

Figure 9-5. Rope terms

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-11

Chapter 9
9-32. A square knot (see figure 9-6) joins two ropes of equal diameter. The knot has two interlocking bights; the
running ends exit on the same side of the standing portion of rope. An overhand knot on the standing end secures
each tail. When dressing the knot, leave at least a 4-inch (10-centimeter) tail on the working end.

Figure 9-6. Square knot
9-33. A round turn with two half hitches (see figure 9-7) is a constant tension anchor knot. The rope forms a
complete turn around the anchor point (earning the knot its name, round turn) with both ropes parallel and
touching but not crossing. Both half hitches are tightly dressed against the round turn with the locking bar on
top. When dressing the knot, leave at least a 4-inch (10-centimeter) tail on the working end.

Figure 9-7. Round turn with two half hitches
9-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-34. To make a double figure eight knot (see figure 9-8), use a figure eight loop knot to form a fixed loop in
the end of the rope. Tie it at the end of the rope or anywhere along the length of the rope. Two ropes parallel to
each other in the shape of a figure eight, with no twists in the figure eight, form a figure eight loop knot. Fixed
loops are large enough to insert a carabiner. When dressing the knot, leave at least a 4-inch (10-centimeter) tail
on the working end.

Figure 9-8. Double figure eight knot
9-35. The end-of-the-rope clove hitch (see figure 9-9) is an intermediate anchor knot that requires constant
tension. Make two turns around the anchor. A locking bar runs diagonally from one side to the other. Leave no
more than one rope’s width between turns. The locking bar is opposite the direction of pull. When dressing the
knot, leave at least a 4-inch (10-centimeter) tail on the working end.

Figure 9-9. End-of-the-rope clove hitch
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-13

Chapter 9
9-36. The middle-of-the-rope clove hitch (see figure 9-10) secures the middle of a rope to an anchor. The knot
forms two turns around the anchor. A locking bar runs diagonally from one side to the other. Leave no more
than one rope’s width between turns. The locking bar is opposite the direction of pull.

Figure 9-10. Middle-of-the-rope clove hitch

9-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-37. The rappel seat is a rope harness for rappelling and climbing. Tie it with the left or right hand. The leg
straps do not cross and are tightly centered on the buttocks (see figure 9-11, step 3). The leg straps form locking
half hitches on the rope around the waist (see figure 9-11, step 3). Tie the square knot on the right hip (see
figure 9-11, step 4) and finish with two overhand knots (see figure 9-11, step 5). Insert the carabiner around all
the ropes with the opening gate opening up and away (see figure 9-11, step 6). The carabiner does not come in
contact with the square knot or overhand knot. The rappel seat is tight enough to prevent the inserting of a fist
between the person and the harness.

Figure 9-11. Rappel seat

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-15

Chapter 9
9-38. The rerouted figure eight knot (see figure 9-12) is an anchor knot that also attaches a climber to a climbing
rope. Form a figure eight in the rope and pass the working end around an anchor. Reroute the end back through
to form a double figure eight. Tie the knot with no twists. When dressing the knot, leave at least a 4-inch
(10-centimeter) tail on the working end.

Figure 9-12. Rerouted figure eight knot
9-39. The figure eight slipknot (see figure 9-13) forms an adjustable bight in the middle of a rope. The knot is
in the shape of a figure eight. Both ropes of the bight pass through the same loop of the figure eight. The bight
is adjustable by means of a sliding section.

Figure 9-13. Figure eight slipknot
9-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-40. The Munter hitch (see figure 9-14) is one of the most often used belays and requires very little equipment.
Route the rope through a locking, pear-shaped carabiner and then back on itself. The belayer controls the rate
of descent by manipulating the working end back on itself with the brake hand.

Figure 9-14. Munter hitch
9-41. The Munter mule knot (see figure 9-15) is a knot that allows the user to stop the movement of the rope
through a Munter hitch. The Munter mule knot allows an easy release of tension with the pull of a rope and a
smooth, controlled release. It is vital knot for many rope systems. Start by tying a Munter hitch in the rope in
the loaded position. Maintaining tension, create two loops in the brake strand on either side and behind the main
strand. Pass one loop through the other on top of the main strand and carefully pull it tight while maintaining
tension. Secure the knot by tying an overhand knot with the bight of rope protruding from the knot. Include the
main strand in the knot.

Figure 9-15. Munter mule knot
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-17

Chapter 9
9-42. A Prusik knot (see figure 9-16) attaches a movable rope to a fixed rope. The knot has two round turns with
a locking bar perpendicular to the standing end of the rope. Secure the knot with a double figure eight or bowline
within 6 inches (15 centimeters) of the locking bar. When dressing the knot, leave at least a 4-inch
(10-centimeter) pigtail on the working end. Tie the Prusik knot in the end or the middle of the rope.

Figure 9-16. Prusik knot

9-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-43. The bowline (see figure 9-17) is useful for tying the end of a rope around an anchor and for tying a single
fixed loop in the end of a rope. Bring the working end of the rope around the anchor from right to left (as the
climber faces the anchor). Form an overhand loop in the standing part of the rope (on the climber’s right) toward
the anchor. Reach through the loop and pull up a bight. Place the working end of the rope (on the climber’s left)
through the bight and bring it back onto itself. Now, dress the knot down. Form an overhand knot with the tail
from the bight.

Figure 9-17. Bowline
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-19

Chapter 9
BELAYS
9-44. Belaying is any action taken to arrest a falling climber or to control the rate of descent of a load from a
higher to lower elevation. The belayer also helps manage a climber’s rope or the rate of descent of the climber
or person rappelling by controlling the amount of rope taken in or out. The belayer is anchored in a stable
position to prevent being pulled out of position and losing control of the rope. There are three types of belays:
body belays, mechanical belay devices, and friction hitches.
9-45. The body belay (see figure 9-18) uses the belayer’s body to apply friction. Routing the rope around the
belayer’s body creates the friction necessary to arrest a climber’s fall. This requires carefulness since the body
bears the entire weight of the load.

Figure 9-18. Body belay method
9-20

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-46. The mechanical belay uses mechanical devices (see figure 9-19) to help the belayer control the rope such
as in rappelling. A variety of mountaineering devices are useful for constructing a mechanical belay. Most
mechanical belay devices double as rappel devices.

Figure 9-19. Examples of mechanical belay devices
9-47. The air traffic controller is a locking mechanical belay device. (See figure 9-20.) It locks down on itself
upon the application of tension in opposite directions. This allows the belayer to apply very little force with the
brake hand to control the rate of descent or to arrest a climber’s fall.

Figure 9-20. Air traffic controller
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-21

Chapter 9
9-48. Friction hitches such as the Munter hitch (see figure 9-14 on page 9-17) are excellent for belaying loads
during the lowering or raising of loads. Table 9-2 demonstrates the sequence of commands that climbers and
belayers use.
Table 9-2. Sequence of climbing commands

COMMAND

GIVEN BY

MEANING

BELAY ON, CLIMB

Belayer

Belay is on and climber may climb.

CLIMBING

Climber

Climber is climbing.

UP-ROPE

Climber

Belayer, remove excess slack in rope.

BRAKE

Climber

Belayer, immediately apply brake.

FALLING

Climber

Climber is falling. Belayer, immediately apply brake
and prepare to arrest the fall.

TENSION

Climber

Belayer, remove all slack from climbing rope until
rope is tight, apply brake, and hold position.

SLACK

Climber

Belayer, allow climber to pull slack into climbing
rope and be ready to assist.

ROCK

Anyone

Alert everyone about an object falling near them.
Belayer, immediately apply brake.

POINT

Climber

In the event of a fall, alert belayer of change in
direction of pull on climbing rope.

STAND BY

Climber or belayer

Hold position and stand by. I am not ready.

DO YOU HAVE ME?

Climber

(Informal) Belayer, prepare for a potential fall, or
belayer, lower me.

I HAVE YOU

Belayer

The brake is on, and I am prepared for you
(climber) to fall / prepared to lower you.

OFF-BELAY

Climber

Climber is safely in, or it is safe for climber to come
off belay.

THREE METERS

Belayer

Alert climber to amount of rope between climber
and belayer in either feet or meters.

BELAY OFF

Belayer

I am off belay.

9-22

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering

ROPE INSTALLATIONS
9-49. Team construction of rope installations helps units negotiate natural and artificial obstacles. Installation
teams comprise a squad-sized element with two to four trained mountaineers. Installation teams deploy early
and prepare the AO for safe, rapid movement by constructing various types of mountaineering installations.
9-50. Following the construction of an installation, the squad, or part of it, remains on site to secure and monitor
the system, assist with the control of forces across it, and adjust or repair it during use. After the unit passes, the
installation team disassembles the system and deploys to another area.
9-51. A fixed rope is anchored in place to help Rangers move over difficult terrain. Its simplest form is a rope
tied off on the top of steep terrain. As the terrain becomes steeper or more difficult, fixed rope systems often
require intermediate anchors along the route. Planning considerations ask:
• Does the installation allow the mountaineers to bypass the obstacle?
• (Tactical) Can the mountaineers secure the obstacle from construction, through negotiation, to
disassembly?
• Is it in a safe and suitable location? Is it easy to negotiate? Does it avoid obstacles?
• Are natural and artificial anchors available?
• Is the area safe from falling rock and ice?
ROPE BRIDGES
9-52. Rope bridges are useful in mountainous terrain for bridging linear obstacles such as streams or rivers
whose force of flowing water is too great or whose temperatures are too cold to conduct a wet crossing. Static
rope is the proper construction material for rope bridges. The maximum bridge span is half the length of the
rope for a dry crossing and three-quarters the length of the rope for a wet crossing. An anchor knot on the far
side of the obstacle anchors the ropes, and a transport-tightening system ties off the ropes at the near end. (See
figure 9-21 on page 9-24.) Rope bridge planning considerations ask:
• Does the installation allow the mountaineers to bypass the obstacle?
• (Tactical) Can the mountaineers secure the obstacle from construction, through negotiation, to
disassembly?
• Is it in the most suitable location such as a bend in the river? Is it easily secured?
• Does it have near side and far side anchors?
• Does it have good loading and off-loading platforms?
• Do the mountaineers have the necessary equipment for a one-rope bridge? This includes—
 One sling rope for every Ranger.
 One locking, steel carabiner.
 Three oval-shaped, steel carabiners.
 Two 120-foot static ropes.
Bridge Construction
9-53. The first Ranger swims the rope to the far side and ties a tensionless anchor, between knee and chest levels,
with a minimum of four wraps. The bridge team commander (BTC) ties a transport-tightening system (see
figure 9-21 on page 9-24) to the near side anchor point. To do this, tie a figure eight slipknot and incorporate a
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-23

Chapter 9
locking half hitch around the adjustable bight. Insert two oval-shaped, steel carabiners into the bight so the gates
are opposite and opposed. Then, route the rope around the near side anchor point at waist level and drop it into
the oval-shaped, steel carabiners.
9-54. A three-person pull team moves forward from the platoon. No more than three tighten the rope. More can
overtighten the rope, bringing it near failure. Once the rope bridge is tight enough, the bridge team secures the
transport-tightening system (see figure 9-21) using two half hitches without losing more than 4 inches
(10 centimeters) of tension. Personnel cross, using the commando crawl (see figure 9-22), Tyrolean traverse
(see figure 9-23), or monkey crawl (see figure 9-24 on page 9-26) methods.

Figure 9-21. Example of transport-tightening system

9-24

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering

Figure 9-22. Commando crawl method

Figure 9-23. Rappel seat (Tyrolean traverse) method
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-25

Chapter 9

Figure 9-24. Monkey crawl method
Bridge Recovery
9-55. Once all but two troops have crossed the bridge, the BTC chooses the wet or dry method to dismantle the
bridge. For the dry method, anchor the tightening system with the transport knot. For a wet crossing, any method
is effective for anchoring the tightening system. The procedure for bridge recovery follows.
a. The BTC back-stacks all the slack coming out of the transport knot, ties a fixed loop, and places a
carabiner into the fixed loop.
b. The next-to-last Ranger to cross attaches carabiner to rappel seat or harness and then moves across the
bridge using the Tyrolean traverse method (see figure 9-23 on page 9-25).
c. The BTC removes all the knots from the system. The far side remains anchored. The rope should now
pass only around the near side anchor.
d. A three-Ranger pull team, assembled on the far side, takes the end brought across by the next-to-last
Ranger, pulls, and holds the rope tight again.
e. The BTC attaches him- or herself to the rope bridge and moves across.
f. Once across, the BTC breaks down the far side anchor, removes the knots, and pulls the rope across.
(1) During a wet crossing, all personnel cross except the BTC or the strongest swimmer.
(2) The BTC then removes all the knots from the system.
(3) The BTC ties a fixed loop, inserts a carabiner, attaches it to rappel seat or harness, and manages
the rope as the far side pulls the slack.
(4) The BTC then moves across the obstacle under the safety of a belay from the far side.
9-26

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
Z-pulley System
9-56. The Z-pulley system (see figure 9-25 on page 9-28) is a simple, easily constructed hauling system. Anchors
must be sturdy and able to support the weight of the load. Different factors such as the tactical situation, weather,
terrain, equipment, load weight, and availability of anchors govern site selection. Carabiners substitute for
pulleys when the latter are unavailable. The leverage obtained using a Z-pulley system is a three-to-one
mechanical advantage. The less friction involved, the greater the mechanical advantage. The rope running
through the carabiners, the load rubbing against the rock wall, and the rope’s condition all cause friction. The
procedure to construct a Z-pulley system follows.
a. Establish an anchor Prusik system.
b. Place a carabiner on the runner at the anchor point, place a pulley into the carabiner, and run the hauling
rope through the pulley.
c. With a sling rope, tie a middle-of-the-rope Prusik knot secured with a figure eight knot on the load
side of the pulley. This serves as a progress capture device. Alternatively, a mechanical descender
serves well in place of the Prusik knot.
d. Take the tails exiting the figure eight and tie a Munter hitch secured by a mule knot. Ensure the Munter
hitch is loaded properly before tying the mule knot.
e. At an angle away from the anchor Prusik system, establish a moveable Prusik system to create a Z in
the hauling rope.
f. Tie another Prusik knot on the load side of the hauling rope secured with a figure eight knot. Using the
tails, tie a double-double figure eight knot.
g. Insert a locking carabiner into the two loops formed and then place the working end into the carabiner.
Mechanical ascenders are not to serve as a moveable Prusik system.
h. Move the working end back on a parallel axis with the anchor Prusik system. Provide a pulling team
on the working end with extra personnel to monitor the Prusik knots.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-27

Chapter 9

Figure 9-25. Z-pulley system
RAPPELLING
9-57. Rappelling is a quick method of descent, but it can be extremely dangerous. Dangers include human error
and the failure of the anchor or other equipment. Carefully choose anchors for use in mountainous environments.
Take great care to load the anchor slowly. Also, avoid placing too much stress on the anchor. The standing
prohibition on bounding rappels enforces these safety practices; only walk down rappels are permissible.

9-28

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Military Mountaineering
9-58. Body rappels are quick and easy (see figure 9-26) but for use on moderate pitches only—never on vertical
or overhanging terrain. The use of gloves prevents rope burns.

Figure 9-26. Body rappel method
9-59. Seat hip rappels use either a figure eight descender (see figure 9-27) or a carabiner wrap descender (see
figure 9-28 on page 9-30). Insert the descender into a sling rope seat and then fasten it to the person rappelling.
This gives the person enough friction for a smooth, controlled descent.

Figure 9-27. Figure eight descender
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

9-29

Chapter 9

Figure 9-28. Closeup of carabiner wrap descender and the seat hip rappel (shown with carabiner
wrap seat hip descender)
9-60. For an extended air traffic controller rappel, the controller is to extend away from the body when possible.
A sling rope is useful for accomplishing this. (See figure 9-29.) This lowers the center of gravity of the person
rappelling, rendering the edge transition smoother. The use of both hands below the device controls the descent.
(See figure 9-30.)

Figure 9-29. Sling extension

9-30

Figure 9-30. Extended air traffic controller
rappel

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 10
Machine Gun Employment
Machine guns are a Ranger platoon’s most effective weapon against the dismounted
enemy force. Machine guns allow the Ranger unit to engage enemy forces from a greater
range and with greater accuracy than individual weapons.

SPECIFICATIONS
10-1. A leader’s abilities to employ available machine guns properly and achieve fire superiority are often the
deciding factors in the battlespace. Table 10-1 provides references and specifications for various machine guns.
Table 10-2 on pages 10-2 and 10-3, figure 10-1 on page 10-3, and figure 10-2 on page 10-4 provide definitions
associated with machine guns and some of their depictions.
Table 10-1. Specifications of machine guns
WEAPON

M249

M2

MK19

Information

TC 3-22.249
TM 9-1005-201-10

TC 3-22.240
TM 9-1005-313-10

TC 3-22.50
TM 9-1005-213-10

TC 3-22.19
TM 9-1010-230-10

Description

5.56-mm gas-operated
automatic

7.62-mm gas-operated
medium

Caliber .50
recoil-operated heavy

40-mm air-cooled,
blowback-operated
automatic GL

Weight

Gun with barrel –
16.41 pounds (7.4
kilograms),
Tripod – 16 pounds
(7.3 kilograms)

Gun with barrel – 27.6
pounds (12.5 kilograms),
Tripod – 20 pounds (9.1
kilograms)

Gun with barrel and
tripod – 128 pounds
(58 kilograms)

Gun with barrel and
tripod – 140.6 pounds
(63.8 kilograms)

Length

104 centimeters
(41 inches)

110.5 centimeters
(43.5 inches)

156 centimeters
(61 inches)

109.5 centimeters
(43 inches)

Max range

3,600 m

3,725 m

6,764 m

2,212 m

Max
effective
range

Bipod/point: 600 m
Bipod/area: 800 m
Tripod/point: 800 m
Tripod/area: 1,000 m
Grazing: 600 m

Bipod/point: 600 m
Bipod/area: 800 m
Tripod/point: 800 m
Tripod/area: 1,100 m
Grazing: 600 m
Suppression: 1,800 m

Point: 1,500 m (single
shot)
Area: 1,830 m
Grazing: 700 m

Point: 1,500 m
Area: 2,212 m

Tracer BO

900 m

900 m

1,800 m

None

19 September 2025

M240B

TC 3-21.76

10-1

Chapter 10
Table 10-1. Specifications of machine guns (continued)
WEAPON

M249

M240B

M2

MK19

Sustained
rate of fire

50 rpm
6 to 9 rounds
4 to 5 seconds
Every 10 minutes

100 rpm
6 to 9 rounds
4 to 5 seconds
Every 10 minutes

40 rpm
6 to 9 rounds
10 to 15 seconds
End of day or when
damaged

40 rpm

Rapid rate
of fire

100 rpm
6 to 9 rounds
2 to 3 seconds
2 minutes

200 rpm
10 to 13 rounds
2 to 3 seconds
2 minutes

40 rpm
6 to 9 rounds
5 to 10 seconds
End of day or when
damaged

60 rpm

Cyclic rate
850 rpm, continuous
650 to 950 rpm,
450 to 550 rpm,
325 to 375 rpm,
of fire
burst
continuous burst
continuous burst
continuous burst
Legend: BO–burnout; GL–grenade launcher; m–meter; max–maximum; mm–millimeter;
rpm–revolutions per minute; TC–training circular; TM–technical manual
Table 10-2. Machine gun terms
Line of sight

The imaginary line drawn from the firer’s eye through the sight to the point of aim.

Burst of fire

A number of successive rounds fired with the same elevation and point of aim when
the trigger is held to the rear. The number of rounds in a burst varies depending on
the type of fire employed.

Trajectory

The curved path of the projectile in its flight from the muzzle of the weapon to its
impact. As the range to the target increases, so does the curve of trajectory.

Maximum ordinate

The height of the highest point above the line of sight the trajectory reaches between
the muzzle of the weapon and the base of the target. It always occurs at a point about
two-thirds of the distance from the weapon to the target and increases with range.

Cone of fire

The pattern formed by the different trajectories in each burst as they travel
downrange. The vibration of the weapon and variations in ammunition and
atmospheric conditions all contribute to the trajectories that compose the cone of fire.

Beaten zone

The elliptical pattern formed when the rounds in the cone of fire strike the ground or
target. Though normally oval- or cigar-shaped, the size and shape of the beaten zone
changes as a function of the range to target and slope of the target and as the density
of the rounds decreases toward the edges. Gunners and automatic rifle shooters
engage targets to take maximum effect of the beaten zone. Due to the right-hand twist
of the barrel, the simplest way to do this is to aim at the left base of the target.

10-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment
Table 10-2. Machine gun terms (continued)
Sector of fire

An area to be covered by fire and assigned to an individual, a weapon, or a unit.
Leaders normally assign a primary and a secondary sector of fire to gunners.

Primary sector of fire

An assignment to the gun team to cover the most likely avenue of enemy approach
from all types of defensive positions.

Secondary sector of fire

An assignment to the gun team to cover the second most likely avenue of enemy
approach. Fired from the same gun position as the primary sector of fire.

Final protective fire (FPF)

An immediately available, prearranged barrier of fire to stop enemy movement across
defensive lines or areas.

Final protective line (FPL)

A predetermined line of grazing fire to stop an enemy assault. Sight the machine gun
along an assigned FPL except when the unit is engaging other targets. An FPL
becomes part of the unit’s machine gun FPFs. An FPL is fixed in direction and
elevation. However, a unit employs a small shift for search to prevent the enemy from
crawling under the FPL and to compensate for irregularities in the terrain or the
sinking of the tripod legs into soft soil during firing. Gunners deliver fire during all
conditions of visibility.

Principal direction of fire
(PDF)

An assignment to a gunner to cover an area with either good fields of fire or a likely
dismounted avenue of approach. A PDF provides mutual support to an adjacent unit.
With no assigned FPL, sight machine guns use the PDF. With an assigned PDF and
when the unit is not engaging other targets, machine guns remain on the PDF. A
leader uses a PDF only when not assigning an FPL; it then becomes the machine
gun’s part of the unit’s FPFs.

Figure 10-1. Trajectory and maximum ordinate

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-3

Chapter 10

Figure 10-2. Cone of fire and beaten zone

CLASSES OF AUTOMATIC WEAPON FIRE
10-2. The U.S. Army classifies automatic weapon fire with respect to the ground, target, and weapon. Table 10-3
and figure 10-3 detail classes of fire with respect to the ground.
Table 10-3. Classes of fire with respect to ground
Grazing

The center of the cone of fire rises less than 1 meter (3 feet) above the ground. Employed in the final
protective line defense. Possible only with level or uniformly sloping terrain. Indirect fire such as that
from an M320 covers any dead space encountered along the final protective line. When firing over
level or uniformly sloping terrain, the M240B and M249 attain a maximum of 600 meters of grazing
fire. The M2 attains a maximum of 700 meters.

Plunging

The danger space is inside the beaten zone. Weapons fire at long range, from high to low ground,
into abruptly rising ground or across uneven terrain resulting in a loss of grazing fire at any point
along the trajectory.

10-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment

Figure 10-3. Classes of fire with respect to ground
10-3. Leaders and gunners strive at all times to position their gun teams where they can best take advantage of
the machine gun’s beaten zone with respect to an enemy target. Channeling the enemy by using terrain or
obstacles so they approach a friendly machine gun position from the front in a column formation is one example.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-5

Chapter 10
10-4. In this situation, the machine gun employs enfilade fire on the enemy column, and the effects of the
machine gun’s beaten zone are much greater than if it had engaged the same enemy column from the flank.
Table 10-4 defines and compares the four classes of fire with respect to the target. Figure 10-4A and
figure 10-4B on page 10-8 depict these classes.
Table 10-4. Classes of fire with respect to target
Enfilade (best)

Occurs when long axes of beaten zone and target coincide or nearly coincide.
Can be frontal fire on a column or flanking fire on a line.
Most desirable class of fire with respect to the target:
Makes maximum use of the beaten zone.
Leaders and gunners always try to position guns for enfilade fire.

Frontal
(Column: Yes,
Line: No)

Occurs when the long axis of the beaten zone is at a right angle to the front of the target.
Highly desirable against a column.
Becomes enfilade fire as the beaten zone coincides with the long axis of the target.
Less desirable against a line because most of the beaten zone normally falls below or after
the enemy target.

Flanking
(Column: No,
Line: Yes)

Delivered directly against the flank of the target.
Most desirable against a line.
Becomes enfilade fire as the beaten zone coincides with the long axis of the target.
Least desirable against a column because most of the beaten zone normally falls before or
after the enemy target.

Oblique

For gunners and automatic rifle shooters.
The long axis of the beaten zone is at any angle other than a right angle to the front of the
target.

10-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment

Figure 10-4A. Classes of fire with respect to target

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-7

Chapter 10

Figure 10-4B. Classes of fire with respect to target

10-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment
10-5. Fires with respect to the machine gun include fixed, traverse, search, traverse and search, swinging
traverse, and free gun. Table 10-5 describes these classes, and figure 10-5 on page 10-10 depicts them.
Table 10-5. Classes of fire with respect to gun
Fixed

Delivered against a stationary point target when the depth and width of the beaten zone cover
the target with little or no manipulation. After the initial burst, the gunners follow any change in
or movement of the target without command.

Traverse

Disperses fires in width by successive changes in direction but not elevation. Delivered
against a wide target with minimal depth. When engaging a wide target requiring traverse fire,
the gunner selects successive aiming points throughout the target area. These aiming points
are close enough together to ensure adequate target coverage. However, they need not be so
close that they waste ammunition by concentrating a heavy volume of fire in a small area.

Search

Distributes fires in depth by successive changes in elevation. Employed against a deep target
or a target with depth and minimal width requiring changes only in the elevation of the gun.
The amount of elevation change depends on the range and slope of the ground.

Traverse and
search

A combination in which successive changes in direction and elevation result in the distribution
of fire in width and depth. Employed against a target whose long axis is oblique to the
direction of fire.

Swinging traverse

Employed against targets requiring major changes in direction but little or no change in
elevation. Targets can be dense, wide, in close formations moving slowly toward or away from
the gun, or vehicles or mounted troops moving across the front. When tripod-mounted, the
traversing slide lock lever is loosened enough to permit the gunner to swing the gun laterally.
With swinging traverse fire, the weapon normally fires at the cyclic rate of fire. Consumes a lot
of ammunition and does not have a beaten zone because each round seeks its own area of
impact.

Free gun

Delivered against rapidly engaged moving targets with fast changes in direction and elevation
(for example, aerial targets, vehicles, mounted troops, enemy soldiers in relatively close
formations moving rapidly toward or away from the gun position). With free gun fire, the
weapon normally fires at the cyclic rate of fire. Consumes a lot of ammunition and does not
have a beaten zone because each round seeks its own area of impact.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-9

Chapter 10

Figure 10-5. Classes of fire with respect to gun

OFFENSE
10-6. Successful offensive operations depend on the effective employment of fire and movement. They are
essential and dependent upon each other. For example, without the support of covering fire, maneuvering in the
presence of enemy fire can produce huge losses.
10-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment
10-7. Covering fire, especially that which provides fire superiority, allows maneuvering in the offense. However,
fire superiority alone rarely wins battles. The primary objective of the offense is to advance on, occupy, and
hold the enemy position.
MEDIUM MACHINE GUNS
10-8. In the offensive, the PL can establish a base-of-fire element with the M240B, the M249 light machine gun,
or a combination of the weapons. When the platoon scheme of maneuver is to conduct the assault with the
Infantry squads, the PSG or WSL may position this element and control its fires. The M240B machine gun is
more stable and accurate at greater ranges but takes longer to maneuver on the tripod than on the bipod. Machine
gunner responsibilities are to—
• Target key enemy weapons until the enemy’s assault element masks the machine gunners’ fires.
• Suppress the enemy’s ability to return accurate fire.
• Hamper the maneuver of the enemy’s assault element.
• Fix the enemy in position.
• Isolate the enemy by cutting off their avenues of reinforcement.
• Shift fires to the flank opposite the one being assaulted and continue targeting any automatic weapons
providing enemy support.
• Engage any enemy counterattack.
• Cover the gap created between the forward element of the friendly assaulting force and the terrain
covered by indirect fire when direct fire lifts and shifts.
• On signal, displace (with the base-of-fire element) to join the assault element on the objective.
MK19 AND M2
10-9. As part of the base-of-fire element, the MK19 and M2 help the friendly assault element. The base-of-fire
element does this by suppressing enemy bunkers and lightly armored vehicles. Even when their fire is too light
to destroy enemy vehicles, well-aimed suppressive fire keeps the enemy buttoned up and unable to place
effective fire on friendly assault elements.
10-10. The MK19 and M2 are particularly effective in preventing lightly armored enemy vehicles from escaping
or reinforcing. Both vehicle-mounted weapons fire from a long-range standoff position or travel forward with
the assault element.
BASE OF FIRE
10-11. Machine gun fire from a support by fire position is the necessary minimum for keeping the enemy from
returning effective fire. Gunners conserve ammunition. The WSL positions and controls the fires of all machine
guns in the element.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-11

Chapter 10
10-12. Machine gun targets include key enemy weapons or groups of enemy targets either on the objective or
attempting to reinforce or counterattack. The nature of the terrain, the desire to achieve some standoff, and the
other METT-TC (I) variables prompt the leader to the correct tactical positioning of the base-of-fire element.
There are distinct phases of rates of fire that the base-of-fire element employs:
• Initial heavy volume (rapid rate) to gain fire superiority.
• Slower (sustained) rate to conserve ammunition while preventing effective return fire as the assault
moves forward.
• Increased rate as the assault nears the objective.
• Lift and shift to targets of opportunity.
10-13. Machine guns in the support by fire role are set in role and assigned primary and alternate sectors of fire
and primary and alternate positions. Machine guns are suppressive fire weapons for known and suspected enemy
positions. Therefore, gunners do not empty all their ammunition into one bunker simply because that is all they
have identified at the time.
10-14. Shift and shut down the weapons squad gun teams one at a time, not all at once. M203, mortar, and other
indirect fire are useful for suppression during the relocation of machine guns. Leaders take into account the
surface danger zone of the machine guns when planning and executing the lift or shift of the support by fire
guns. The effectiveness of the enemy on the objective plays a large role in how much risk leaders take with
respect to the lifting or shifting of fires. Once the support by fire line is masked by the assault element, gunners
lift or shift fires, or lift and shift, to prevent enemy withdrawal or reinforcement.
MANEUVER ELEMENT
10-15. Under certain terrain conditions and for proper control, machine guns join the maneuver or assault unit.
When this is the case, leaders assign them a cover fire zone or sector. The machine guns seldom accompany the
maneuver element. The gun’s primary mission is to provide covering fire. The maneuver element employs
machine guns only when the area or zone of action assigned to the assault unit or company is too narrow to
permit proper control of the guns. The unit then moves the machine guns and readies them to employ on order
from the leader and in the direction requiring supporting fire.
10-16. When the machine guns are to move with the element undertaking the assault, the maneuver element
brings the machine guns to provide additional firepower. Gunners fire these weapons from bipods, in an assault
mode, from the hip, or from the underarm position. They target enemy automatic weapons anywhere on the
unit’s objective.
10-17. After destroying any enemy automatic weapons, the gunners distribute fires over their assigned zones or
sectors. The machine gunner in the assault position engages within 300 meters of the target often at point-blank
ranges.
10-18. When the platoon’s organic weapons fail to cover the area or zone of action, the company commander
has the option of assigning more machine guns and personnel to help the platoon accomplish its assigned
mission. Leaders assign each machine gunner a zone or a sector to cover, and they move with the maneuver
element.

10-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment
CONTROLLED OCCUPATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF THE SUPPORT BY FIRE POSITION
10-19. Controlled occupation of the support by fire position is one of the key elements in setting up a support
by fire position. To remain undetected, use stealth and control. Rangers follow these procedural steps to occupy
their support by fire position effectively.
a. The WSL moves to and establishes an RP just short of the support by fire position.
Note. The order of movement for the weapons squad during movement to their position is the WSL,
gun team 1 (gunner, ammunition bearer, and assistant gunner), gun team 2 (assistant gunner, gunner,
ammunition bearer), and gun team 3 (assistant gunner, gunner, ammunition bearer).
b. The WSL then moves forward from the RP with the gun 1 gunner, followed by the gun 1 ammunition
bearer to link ammunition, and finally the gun 1 assistant gunner.
(1) The gunner gets into position and remains in bipod mode to provide security.
(2) Once gun 1 is on the bipod with ammunition linked and the spare barrel out, the WSL notifies the
PL that the support by fire is occupied.
c. The WSL next brings forward the gun 2 assistant gunner, gunner, and ammunition bearer.
(1) The assistant gunner sets the tripod, and the gunner sets gun 2 on the tripod.
(2) The ammunition bearer drops off all ammunition at the gun position, links the ammunition,
prepares the spare barrel, and moves to pull flank or rear security.
d. Once gun 2 is in place, the WSL brings forward the gun 3 assistant gunner, gunner, and ammunition
bearer.
(1) The assistant gunner sets the tripod, and the gunner sets gun 3 on the tripod.
(2) The ammunition bearer drops off all ammunition at the gun position, links the ammunition,
prepares the spare barrel, and moves to pull flank or rear security.
e. Upon the emplacement of gun team 3, gun team 1 moves the gun from bipod to tripod.
f. Upon the emplacement of the support by fire, the WSL gets down behind the guns to ensure they cover
their sectors of fire and that everything is in accordance with the PL’s guidance.
g. The WSL calls the PL and reports the support by fire position as established.
10-20. The PL sometimes uses controlled withdrawal of the support by fire position to cover the withdrawal of
the platoon and provide security for the support by fire position. Rangers follow these procedural steps to
withdraw from their support by fire position.
a. Before the platoon moves off the objective, the WSL shifts the machine guns’ sectors of fire to cover
the objective from enemy reinforcements.
b. After the guns are covering the objective, the WSL starts breaking down the gun positions one at a
time.
c. After the main body of the platoon begins moving off the objective, the gun teams move one at a time
into the order of movement with the last gun breaking down as soon as the platoon is completely off
the objective.
d. The entire weapons squad moves tactically to link up with the rest of the platoon.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-13

Chapter 10

DEFENSE
10-21. The platoon’s defense centers on its machine guns. The PL positions the rifle squad to protect the
machine guns against the assault of a dismounted enemy formation.
10-22. The machine gun provides the necessary range and volume of fire to cover the squad’s front in the
defense. However, position is very important. The requirements to employ and position machine guns follow:
•
The main requirement of a suitable machine gun position in the defense is its effectiveness in
accomplishing specific missions.
•
The best positions are accessible and afford cover and concealment. Machine guns in such positions
protect the front, flanks, and rear of occupied portions of the defensive position and are mutually
supportive.
•
Attacking troops usually seek easily traveled ground that provides cover from fire.
•
For each machine gun, the leader chooses three positions: primary, alternate, and supplementary.
The redundancy ensures they cover the sector and have protection on their flanks.
•
The leader positions each machine gun to cover the entire sector or to overlap sectors with the other
machine guns.
•
The engagement range extends from over 1,000 meters, where the enemy begins its assault, to
point-blank range.
•
Machine gun targets include enemy automatic weapons and command and control elements.
10-23. Defensive positions distribute machine gun fire in width and depth. Machine guns are the backbone or
framework of the defense. Firstly, leaders use them to subject the enemy to increasingly devastating fire from
the initial phases of the attack. Secondly, leaders use them to neutralize any partial enemy successes by
delivering intense fires in support of counterattacks. Lastly, their tremendous firepower helps the unit hold
ground.
10-24. In the defensive, the medium machine gun provides sustained direct fire that covers the most likely or
most dangerous enemy dismounted AAs. It also protects friendly units against the enemy’s dismounted close
assault. The PL positions the machine guns to concentrate fires in locations with the capacity to inflict the most
damage to the enemy. The leader also places them to take advantage of grazing enfilade fire, standoff or
maximum engagement range, and the best observation of the target area.
10-25. Machine guns provide overlapping and interlocking fires with adjacent units and cover tactical and
protective obstacles with traverse or search fire. When leaders call for final protective fire, machine guns (aided
by M249 fire) place an effective barrier of fixed direct fire across the platoon’s front. Leaders position machine
guns to—
• Concentrate fires where they want to kill the enemy.
• Fire across the platoon’s front.
• Cover obstacles by direct fire.
• Tie in with adjacent units.
10-26. In the defensive, the MK19 and M2 machine guns fire from the vehicle mount or dismounted from the
vehicle and mounted on a tripod at a defensive fighting position appropriate to the weapon system. These guns
provide sustained direct fire that covers the most likely enemy mounted AA. Their maximum effective range
10-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Machine Gun Employment
enables them to engage enemy vehicles and equipment at far greater ranges than the platoon’s other direct-fire
weapons.
10-27. When mounted on the tripod, the M2 and MK19 are highly accurate to their maximum effective ranges.
They allow leaders to plan predetermined fires for likely high-payoff targets. The tradeoff is these weapon
systems are heavy, and a unit’s movement of them is slow. These guns are less accurate when mounted on
vehicles than when fired from the tripod mount system. However, units more easily maneuver them to alternate
firing locations whenever the need arises.

CONTROL OF MACHINE GUNS
10-28. Leaders use control measures, coordinating instructions, and fire commands to control the engagements
of their machine guns. Rehearsals are key in a leader’s ability to control machine guns. The noise and confusion
of battle can limit the ability of a leader to control the machine guns. Therefore, a leader uses a combination of
methods that accomplish the mission. Several successful methods for a leader to control fires are oral, hand and
arm signals, prearranged signals, personal contact, and range cards.
10-29. A leader gives a fire command to deliver effective fire on a target quickly and without confusion. It is
essential that troops understand the WSL’s delivered commands and that the assistant gunner or gun TL and the
gunner echo them. The elements of a fire command operate as follows:
• Alert lets the gun team know they are about to engage a target.
• Direction lets the gun team know where to engage.
• Description lets the gun team know what they are engaging.
• Range (if not already set on a predestined target) allows the gun team to adjust the traverse and
elevation mechanism.
• Method of fire includes manipulation and rate of fire.
• Manipulation dictates the class of fire with respect to the weapon by the announcement of FIXED,
TRAVERSE, SEARCH, or TRAVERSE AND SEARCH.
• Rate controls the volume of fire (sustained, rapid, and cyclic).
• Command to open fire initiates the firing of the weapon system.
10-30. Leaders carefully plan the machine guns’ rates of fire appropriate for the mission and the amount of
ammunition available. The WSL fully understands the mission, the amount of available ammunition, and the
application of necessary machine gun fire to support all key events of the mission fully. Careful planning helps
ensure the guns do not run out of ammunition.
10-31. A mounted platoon has a chance of having access to enough machine gun ammunition to support the
guns throughout an operation. On the other hand, a dismounted platoon with a limited resupply capability plans
on having available only the basic load. In either case, leaders take into account the mission’s key events that
the guns support. They plan for the necessary rate of machine gun fire to support the key events and the requisite
amount of ammunition for the scheduled rates of fire.
10-32. The leader estimates how much ammunition is necessary to support all the machine guns and adjusts the
amount each event uses to ensure enough ammunition remains for all phases of the operation. Examples of
planning rates of fire and ammunition requirements for a platoon’s machine guns in the attack follow.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

10-15

Chapter 10

Weapons Squad Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
A. Use a starter belt (about 50 to 70 rounds) when moving.
B. Ensure ammunition and NVDs are readily accessible and in packs such as an assault pack for
mounted and city operations or a rucksack for long sustainment missions.
C. Carry the traverse and elevation mechanism and the tripod together.
D. When the tripod is taken is mission dependent such as in urban operations.
E. Use optics, lasers, NVDs. For example, in urban operations, consider using a reflexive sight
because most engagements are 150 meters or closer. Also, zero the iron sights.

10-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 11
Urban Operations
Today’s security environment demands more from leaders than ever before. Leaders do
not only lead Rangers but also influence other people. They are able to work with other
members of the armed services and government agencies. They win the willing
cooperation of multinational partners, both military and civilian. Urban offensive
operations pose great risks to Army forces and noncombatants. Yet, the military demands
self-aware and adaptive leaders who compel enemies to surrender in war and master the
circumstances facing them in stability operations and peace. Victory and success depend
on the effectiveness of these leaders’ organizations. Developing effective organizations
requires hard, realistic, and relevant training.

PLANNING
11-1. Urban operations include decisive action—continuous combinations of offensive, defensive, and stability
operations or defense support of civil authorities’ tasks. An urban operation executes these tasks either
sequentially or (more likely) simultaneously. (For further study of urban operations, see ADP 3-0,
ATP 3-06.11, and ATP 3-21.8.)
11-2. Urban areas are strategically important. Several factors attract armies to combat in urban areas. Some
common reasons follow:
• Using the defensive advantages of the urban environment.
• Developing allegiance and support from among the populace.
• Adapting urban resources such as the infrastructure or capabilities for operational or strategic purposes.
• Drawing in the enemy.
• Playing on an area’s symbolic importance.
• Using an area’s geographical advantages, especially to develop an AA or to dominate a region.
11-3. Task-organizing subordinate units for urban operations depends largely on the nature of the operation.
Some units are always part of the task organization to ensure the success of urban operations. Infantry, special
operations, civil affairs, aviation, military police, military information support operations, military intelligence,
and engineers are units required for decisive action in urban operations. Other types of forces such as Armor,
artillery, and chemical units have essential roles in specific types of urban operations but are less applicable to
other operations.
11-4. Military forces conduct decisive action in urban areas. Commanders conduct decisive action abroad by
executing offensive, defensive, and stability urban operations as part of a joint, interagency, and multinational
effort. The situation mandates the dominion of one type of operation—offense, defense, stability, or defense
support of civil authorities—over the urban operation. Commanders often find themselves executing offensive,
defensive, and stability operations at the same time. In fact, waiting for the conclusion of all combat operations
before beginning stability operations often results in lost, sometimes irretrievable, opportunities. The dominant
type of operation varies between different urban areas, even in the same campaign.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

11-1

Chapter 11

PREPARATION
11-5. Operating successfully in a complex urban environment requires a thorough understanding of the
environment and rigorous, realistic urban operations training. Training covers every aspect of decisive action
including appropriate tactics, techniques, and procedures related to offense, defense, and stability operations.
Training also replicates the following conditions:
• The psychological impact of intense, close combat against a well-trained, relentless, and adaptive
enemy.
• The effects of noncombatants including government and nongovernmental organizations and agencies
in close proximity to Army forces. These necessitate—
 An in-depth understanding of culture and its effects on perceptions.
 An understanding of civil administration and governance.
 The ability to mediate and negotiate with civilians including effective communication through an
interpreter.
 The development and use of flexible, effective, and understandable rules of engagement (ROE).
• A complex intelligence environment requiring lower echelon units to collect and forward essential
information to higher echelons for rapid synthesis into timely and useable intelligence at all levels of
command. The multifaceted urban environment requires a bottom-fed approach to developing
intelligence.
• The communications challenges imposed by the environment, as well as the need to transmit large
volumes of information and data.
• The medical and logistical problems associated with operations in an urban area including constant
threat interdiction against lines of communication and sustainment bases.
11-6. In a complex urban environment, every Ranger, regardless of branch or military occupational specialty,
remains committed and prepared to close with and kill or capture threat forces. Every Ranger also remains
prepared for effective interaction with the urban area’s noncombatant population and to assist in the unit’s
information collection efforts.
11-7. In urban operations, every Ranger is likely to perform advanced rifle marksmanship including advanced
firing positions, short-range marksmanship, and night firing techniques (unassisted and with the use of optics).
While not all-inclusive or necessarily urban-specific, other critical individual and collective urban operations
tasks include those to—
• Conduct TLP.
• Operate the unit’s crew-served weapons.
• Conduct urban reconnaissance and combat patrolling.
• Enter and clear buildings and rooms as part of an urban attack or cordon and search operation, which
includes—
 Sensitive site exploitation (SE).
 Use of metal detectors.
 Employment of military working dogs.
 Tactical call out.
 Collaboration with local army, police, or special operations forces.
• Defend an urban area.
11-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Urban Operations
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Act as a member of a mounted patrol including specific driver training.
Recover own vehicles.
Control civil disturbances.
Navigate in an urban area.
Prepare for follow-on missions.
Identify explosives, bombs, booby traps, their construction materials, and methods for making and
clearing them.
Link up with the battlespace owner.
React to contact, ambush, snipers, indirect fire, and improvised explosive devices (IEDs).
Set up a personnel or vehicle checkpoint or blocking positions around a target location.
Establish overwatch positions and support by fire positions such as sniper positions.
Simultaneously clear the top and bottom floors of a building.
Assign climbing and roof-clearing teams for overwatch or sniper support.
Teach the effective use of long-range surveillance, scout, and sniper teams.
Secure a disabled vehicle or downed aircraft.
Call for indirect fire and CAS.
Create and employ explosive charges.
Handle detainees and EPWs and extract high-value targets.
Treat and evacuate casualties.
Accurately report information.
Understand the society and cultures specific to the AO.
Use basic commands and phrases in the region’s primary language.
Conduct tactical questioning (TQ).
Interact with media personnel.
Conduct thorough after action reviews.

ANALYZING THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT
11-8. Urban operations often differ from one operation to the next. However, some fundamentals apply to urban
operations regardless of the mission, geographical location, or level of command. They are particularly relevant
to the urban environment, which is dominated by artificial structures and a dense noncombatant population.
These fundamentals help ensure every action taken by a commander conducting urban operations contributes to
the desired end state.
11-9. Maintaining close combat is inherent in decisive action urban operations. Close combat in any urban
operation is resource intensive, requires properly trained and equipped forces, and has the potential for a high
number of casualties. The ability to close decisively with and destroy enemy forces as a combined arms team
remains essential. In stability urban operations, lack of respect for and fear of Army forces can hinder recovery
as much as the ill-advised use of force. Ideally, all brigade combat team Soldiers are properly equipped and
trained to fight in an urban environment. This readiness allows the brigade combat team to deter aggression,
compel compliance, morally and physically dominate an enemy and destroy their means to resist, and terminate
or transition urban operations on the brigade combat team commander’s terms.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

11-3

Chapter 11
11-10. Previous Army doctrine inclined toward a systematic, linear approach to urban combat. This attrition
approach emphasized standoff weapons and firepower. It can result in significant collateral damage, a lengthy
operation, and inconsistency between the political situation and strategic objectives. Enemy forces defending
urban areas want Army forces to adopt this approach due to the likely costs in resources. Brigade combat team
commanders consider this approach to urban combat only as an exception justified by unique circumstances.
Instead, commanders seek to achieve precise, intended effects against multiple decisive points that overwhelm
an enemy’s ability to react effectively.
CONTROL THE ESSENTIAL AND MINIMIZE COLLATERAL DAMAGE
11-11. Rangers need to analyze the urban environment carefully. Considerations involve—
• Mission. Know the correct task organization to accomplish the mission (offense, defense, or stability
and support operations).
• Enemy:
 Disposition — Analyze the array of enemy forces in and around the objective, those known and
suspected such as known or suspected locations of minefields, obstacles, and strong points.
 Composition and strength — Analyze the enemy’s task organization, troops available, suspected
strength, and amount of support from the local civilian population based on intelligence estimates.
Is the enemy a conventional or unconventional force?
 Morale — Analyze the enemy’s current operational status based on friendly intelligence estimates.
Is the enemy well supplied? Have they recently won against friendly forces or sustained many
casualties? What is the current weather?
 Capabilities — Determine what the enemy can employ against friendly forces. What weapon
systems do they have? Are there snipers? What about threats from IEDs, high-yield explosives,
and chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) exposure? Are there artillery, engineer,
or air defense assets? Do they have thermal imaging devices or NVDs, CAS, or armor threats?
Discriminate between threats and nonthreats such as suicide vests.
 Probable courses of action — Based on friendly intelligence estimates, determine how the enemy
will likely fight in the AO (in and around the friendly AO). Know the enemy AO tactics,
techniques, and procedures such as trip wires, pressure plate IEDs, or snipers. Analyze historical
data from attacks (where, what, how, and time of day).
Terrain
11-12. Leaders conduct a detailed terrain analysis of each urban setting, considering the types and composition
of existing structures. When analyzing terrain in and around the AO, they use: (1) observation and fields of fire,
AAs, key terrain, obstacles, and cover and concealment; (2) political, military, economic, social, information,
infrastructure, physical environment, and time; (3) areas, structures, capabilities, organizations, people, and
events. (See chapter 2 for information on operations.) Further considerations specifically for observation and
fields of fire and for cover and concealment follow:
• Observation and fields of fire — Remain ready to conduct urban operations under limited visibility
conditions.
• Cover and concealment:
 Thoroughly analyze areas in and on the edge of urban areas.
 Identify routes to objectives that give assault forces the best possible cover and concealment.
11-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Urban Operations







Take advantage of limited visibility, which allows forces to move undetected to their final assault
or breaching positions.
Use overwatch elements and secondary entry teams for security while initial entry or breaching
teams move forward.
When in the final assault position, forces move as rapidly as tactically possible to access structures,
which afford cover and concealment.
It is human nature to stick together and seek safety, but avoid bunching up at entry points, tunnels,
walls, or indoors. This reduces the possibility of one grenade’s impacting the entire team. Maintain
a safe but securable distance between teams and squads.
Learn to use obscurants properly and use tactical patience to take full advantage of these effects.
Practice noise and light disciplines. Avoid unnecessary vocal communication, learn the proper use
of white light, and limit contact with surfaces capable of drawing the enemy’s attention.

Obstacles, Key Terrain, and Avenues of Approach
11-13. Many artificial and natural obstacles exist on the periphery, as well as in the urban environment. Conduct
detailed reconnaissance of routes and objectives including subterranean complexes and consider route
adjustments and special equipment needs. Ensure routes are clear (not blocked). Avoid roads that run along or
through marketplaces since they can easily become blocked.
11-14. Analyze which buildings, intersections, bridges, landing zones (LZs), pickup zones (PZs), airports, and
elevated areas provide a tactical advantage to either side. The leader identifies critical infrastructure in the AO
that provides the enemy with a tactical advantage in the battlespace (for example, communications centers,
medical facilities, governmental facilities, facilities with psychological significance).
11-15. Consider the effects of the roads, intersections, inland waterways, and subterranean constructs such as
subways, sewers, and basements. Leaders classify areas as go, slow go, or no go based on the navigability of the
approach. Always have alternate infiltration and exfiltration routes. Keep in mind a wall can be breached to
create an emergency exfiltration route.
TROOPS AND TIME
11-16. Analyze each friendly force for its disposition, composition, strength, morale, capabilities, and other
appropriate qualities and condition. Leaders consider the type and size of the objective to plan the effective use
of available troops.
11-17. Operations in an urban environment have a slower pace and tempo. Leaders consider the amount of time
required to secure, clear, or seize the urban objective, along with the stress and fatigue Rangers often experience.
Leaders allow additional time for area analysis efforts. Such analysis reviews or asks the following, respectively:
• Maps, urban plans, and aerial photographs.
• Historical data collected from other units and indigenous forces.
• Hydrological data.
• Line of sight surveys.
• Long-range surveillance and scout reconnaissance.
• Is artillery supporting multiple units at the same time?
• How long does it take to shift a 155-mm howitzer and prepare the gun?
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

11-5

Chapter 11
•
•
•
•
•
•

What is the priority level for getting Armor assets?
How close is Armor to the target?
Does Armor’s presence compromise the mission?
How long will it take Armor to move to a location?
If Armor assets have not been previously coordinated, how long does it take to get them?
How much preparation, survey, and emplacement time of charges do the engineers need?

CIVILIANS
11-18. The National Command Authority establishes the ROE. Commanders at all levels may provide further
guidance for dealing with civilians in the AO. Leaders remind subordinates daily of the latest ROE and
immediately inform them of any changes. Rangers have the discipline to identify the enemy from noncombatants
and ensure civilians understand and follow all directed commands.
Note. It is possible civilians do not speak English, are hiding (especially small children), or are
dazed from a breach. Do not give them the means to resist. Rehearse how clearing or search teams
react to these variables. Never compromise the safety of the Rangers. Consider having the interpreter
use a marking system to separate military-aged males from women and children. Have designated
dirty and clean rooms and a tactical questioning area.

11-19. The complexity of the urban environment, particularly the human dimension, requires rapid information
sharing at all levels including joint services, multinational partners, and participating government and
nongovernmental agencies. The analysis of urban information necessary for refining and deepening a
commander’s understanding of the urban environment and its infrastructure of systems also demands
collaboration among the various information sources and consumers.

CLOSE QUARTERS COMBAT
11-20. Due to the nature of a close quarters combat encounter, engagements are very close (within 10 meters)
and very fast (with targets exposed for a few seconds only). Most of these engagements are victorious for the
side who hits first and neutralizes their enemy. It is more important to knock down an enemy as soon as possible
than it is to kill them. To win a close quarters engagement, Rangers make quick, accurate shots by mere reflex.
Their reflexive fire training allows them to accomplish this. Remember: always fire until the enemy goes down.
Rangers conduct all reflexive fire training with their eyes open.
Note. Research suggests only three out of ten people actually fire their weapons when confronted
by an enemy during room-clearing operations. Close quarters combat success for the Ranger begins
with psychological preparedness for close quarters battle. The foundation for this preparedness
begins with proficiency in basic rifle marksmanship. Survival in the urban environment does not
depend on advanced skills and technologies. Rangers are proficient in the basics.

11-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Urban Operations
REHEARSALS
11-21. Similar to the conduct of other military operations, leaders need to designate time for rehearsals. Urban
operations require a variety of individual, collective, and special tasks not associated with operations on less
complex terrain. These tasks require additional rehearsal time for clearing, breaching, obstacle reduction,
CASEVAC, and support teams. Additionally, leaders identify time for rehearsals with combined arms elements.
11-22. In a stance, the feet are shoulder-width apart with the toes pointed straight to the front (direction of
movement). The firing side foot is slightly staggered to the rear of the nonfiring foot. The knees are slightly
bent, and the upper body leans slightly forward. The shoulders are not rolled or slouched. The weapon is held
with the buttstock in the pocket of the shoulder and with a firm, rearward pressure into the shoulder. This allows
for more accurate shot placement on multiple targets. The firing side elbow is kept in against the body, and the
hand remains forward on the weapon (not on the magazine well). This allows for better control of the weapon.
The Ranger assumes a comfortable boxer stance.
11-23. For the low carry technique, the buttstock of the weapon is placed in the pocket of the shoulder. The
barrel is pointed downward so the front sight post and day optic are just outside the Ranger’s field of vision.
The head is always up, identifying targets. This technique is safest and recommended for use by the clearing
team once inside the room.
11-24. For the high carry technique, the buttstock of the weapon is held in the armpit. The barrel is pointed
slightly upward with the front sight post in the peripheral vision of the Ranger. To assume the proper firing
position, push out on the pistol grip, thrust the weapon forward, and pull the weapon straight back into the pocket
of the shoulder. This technique is best suited for the lineup outside the door. Exercise caution with this technique,
always maintaining situational awareness, particularly in a multifloored building.
Note. Muzzle awareness is critical to the successful execution of close quarters operations. Rangers
never at any time point their weapons at or cross the bodies of their fellow Rangers. They always
avoid exposing the muzzle of their weapons around corners, which is known as flagging.

11-25. For a weapon malfunction during any close quarters combat training, the Ranger takes a knee to conduct
immediate action. Upon clearing the malfunction, the Ranger need not stand to engage targets immediately.
Rangers save precious seconds by continuing to engage from one knee. Whenever other members of the team
see a Ranger down, they automatically clear that Ranger’s sector of fire. Before standing, the Ranger warns
team members of the movement and only rises after checking the rear, verifying no one is shooting overhead,
and receiving the team’s acknowledgement of the warning. Whenever a malfunction occurs after a Ranger has
committed to a doorway, that Ranger enters the room far enough to allow those following to enter and then
moves away from the door. Rangers continue to practice this drill until it is second nature to them.
11-26. Rangers give special consideration to the approach to a building or breach point. One trademark of
Ranger operations is the intentional use of limited visibility conditions. Whenever possible, Rangers execute
breaching and entry operations during hours and conditions of limited visibility. Rangers always take advantage
of all available cover and concealment when approaching breach and entry points. When natural or artificial
cover and concealment is unavailable, Rangers employ obscurants to conceal their approach. Obscurants also
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

11-7

Chapter 11
enhance existing cover and concealment. Rangers number the breach and entry team members for identification,
communication, and control purposes. A clearing team employs four Rangers as follows:
• Ranger #1 is always the most experienced and mature member of the team, other than the TL.
Ranger #1 is responsible for frontal and entry and breach point security.
• Ranger #2 is directly behind Ranger #1 in the order of movement and moves through the breach point
in the opposite direction from Ranger #1.
• Ranger #3 moves in the opposite direction as Ranger #2 inside the room, at least 1 meter (3 feet) from
the door.
• Ranger #4 moves in the opposite direction as Ranger #3, is responsible for rear security, and is
normally the last Ranger into the room. Ranger #4 has the additional duty of breaching.
• The TL initiates all vocal and physical commands and exercises situational awareness at all times with
respect to the task, friendly force, and enemy activity. The TL maintains a position to control the team.
• With the possibility of civilians in the building or rooms, Rangers sometimes decide to enter with
precision weapons only such as M4s (not M249s) to avoid civilian casualties.
Note. Consider how much firepower each Ranger delivers and where best to put the squad automatic
weapon gunner in the order. Weigh firepower against quick, accurate shots. When Ranger #4 has
breaching responsibilities, the squad automatic weapon gunner does not serve in that position since
that reduces the firepower.

11-27. Rangers give consideration to actions outside the point of entry. The entry point position and individual
weapon positions are important. The clearing team members stand 1 to 2 feet (about 0.5 meters) from the entry
point, ready to enter. They orient their weapons to provide their own 360-degree security at all times. Team
members signal to each other that they are ready at the point of entry, which is best accomplished by sending
up a squeeze (rocking motion). When the team uses a tap method instead, they tend to mistake an inadvertent
bump for a tap.
11-28. To enter and clear a room, see battle drill 07-SQD-D9509 in chapter 8. Figures 11-1 and 11-2 and
figure 11-3 on page 11-10 depict how Rangers clear a room.
11-29. The procedural steps to lock down a room follow.
a. Control the situation in the room.
b. Use clear, concise hand and arm signals. Keep vocal commands to a minimum to reduce the amount
of confusion and to prevent any enemy in the next room from discerning what is happening. This
enhances the opportunity for surprise and allows the assault force to detect any approaching force.
c. Physically and psychologically dominate the room’s occupants.
d. Assess the situation. Slow-clearing instead of dominating a room with brute force is sometimes more
effective in a less hostile situation. It keeps noncombatants calm and more manageable.
e. Establish security and report status.
f. Do a cursory search of the room including the ceiling (three-dimensional fight).
g. Identify those deceased using reflexive response techniques such as an eye thump or a kick to the groin
for males.
11-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Urban Operations
h. Search the room for the PIR while considering the time available on target.
i. Evacuate personnel.
j. Mark the room as clear in accordance with the unit’s SOP (for example, with chemical light sticks,
VS-17 signal panel, engineer tape).

Figure 11-1. First two Soldiers entering to clear a room

Figure 11-2. Third soldier entering room and clearing sector
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

11-9

Chapter 11

Figure 11-3. Fourth Soldier entering room and dominating sector
MARKING BUILDINGS AND ROOMS
11-30. Units have long identified a need to mark specific buildings and rooms during urban operations.
Sometimes, rooms require marking for having been cleared, or buildings requiring marking for containing
friendly forces. Chalk is the most common marking material; it is light, easy to obtain, and less visible than the
alternatives. Other choices are spray paint and paintball guns. (See ATP 3-06.11 for information on building
markings.)
Note. Avoid permanently marking buildings and rooms since this causes collateral damage, thereby
potentially deteriorating relationships with local nationals.

11-31. Chemical light sticks and scrim-backed, pressure-sensitive tapes (for example, 100 mph tape) are
available in a variety of colors, visible from a distance, and removable. The colors of the chemical light sticks
and 100 mph tapes have different meanings:
• Red — CCP.
• Green — room clear.
• Orange — unexploded ordnance.
• Blue — clean room.
• Infrared — breach point.

11-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 12
Waterborne Operations
This chapter discusses rope bridges, poncho rafts, and watercraft. While conducting
waterborne operations, all Rangers wear the waterborne uniform. Furthermore, Rangers
wear the equipment in the following order:
1. Unbloused pant leg.
2. Fastened top collar (all the way up).
3. Fastened cuffs.
4. Swimmer safety line tied with an around-the-waist bowline, an end-of-rope bowline at arm’s
length, and carabiners attached to the collar.
5. Unzipped field load carrier.
6. Tactical assault panel with unbuckled back buckle (stream crossing).

ROPE BRIDGE
12-1. Rope bridges are useful when a battalion-sized or smaller unit is conducting a covert gap crossing. A covert
crossing is a planned crossing of an inland water obstacle or any other gap crossing during which the unit intends
to remain undetected. A covert gap crossing serves a variety of situations in support of various missions but is
considered (as opposed to deliberate or hasty) only when the need or opportunity arises to cross a gap without
the enemy’s detection. Swift river currents influence the selection of a crossing method. (See paragraph 12-36
for river current velocity.)
12-2. The Ranger patrol seldom has ready-made bridges, so the patrol team knows how to employ covert gap
crossing techniques. The requisite personnel for making a rope bridge follow:
• Ranger #1 — lead safety swimmer and far side lifeguard.
• Ranger #2 — rope swimmer (swims the water obstacle pulling a 150-foot rope and ties off the rope on
the far side anchor point).
• Ranger #3 — near side lifeguard and the last Ranger to cross the water obstacle.
• Ranger #4 — BTC and the team’s most knowledgeable person.
• Rangers #5 and #6 — rope pullers (assist the BTC in tightening the rope bridge).
12-3. A wet crossing (or one-rope bridge) requires special equipment. This includes—
• Two carabiners for each piece of heavy equipment.
• Three steel carabiners for each 150 feet (45 meters) of rope.
• One 7-foot utility rope for each person (swimmer safety line).
• Two carabiners for each person (one clipped to the swimmer safety line and one tied to the top center
frame of the rucksack).
• Two waterproof bags for each RTO.
• Two carbon dioxide inflatable life preservers (Scout swimmer vests).
• Three noninflatable life preservers (work vests).
• Two 150-foot nylon ropes.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-1

Chapter 12
12-4. Leaders prepare a gap crossing annex (see table 2-1 on pages 2-32 through 2-34) with the unit OPORD.
They also accomplish special organization at this time. For a platoon-sized patrol, leaders normally give a squad
the task of providing the rope bridge team. The SL designates the squad’s most technically proficient Ranger as
the BTC. Rehearsals and inspections take place. (See figure 12-1.) Leaders emphasize—
• Security and actions on enemy contact.
• Actual construction of the rope bridge on dry land within the 8-minute time standard.
• Individual preparation.
• Order of crossing.
• All signals and control measures.
• Reorganization.

12-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations

Figure 12-1. Positions of bridge team personnel

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-3

Chapter 12
12-5. The BTC rehearses the bridge team as realistically as possible during the TLP. Leaders ensure the
personnel are proficient in the mechanics of a covert gap crossing operation. They identify weak swimmers,
inspect equipment, correct rigging and preparation, finalize weapon configurations, confirm personnel
knowledge and understanding of the operation, and ensure the 150-foot rope is back-stacked and properly coiled.
The unit leader selects the crossing site that best facilitates the tactical plan.

WARNING
The first Ranger to cross the fully constructed rope
bridge tests for proper rope tension with full body
weight and a 45-pound rucksack by locking elbows
atop the center of the rope. The Ranger should
submerge no deeper in the water than the level of
the chest or nametape.
Only one special item of equipment may be on the
rope bridge at a time. Special items are M240s,
M249s, and additional rucksacks. The special item
must completely clear the rope bridge on the far
side before a Ranger may follow it. The rope bridge
commander shall await the removal of the special
item before attaching the next Ranger for crossing.
Any Rangers identified as weak swimmers cross
alone to enable the near side and far side lifeguards
to watch them without distraction.
See chapter 9 for information on rope bridges.

12-6. Once the mission reaches the execution phase, several actions take place. These include establishing and
conducting a bridge for the gap crossing. The process follows.
a. The leader halts short of the river, establishes local security, reconnoiters the area for any enemy
presence, and determines the need for and suitability of a crossing site. The leader directs the BTC to
construct the bridge.
b. The BTC constructs a one-rope bridge and selects near side and, visibility permitting, far side anchor
points. To anchor him- or herself to the bridge, the BTC ties a swimmer’s safety line around the waist
and secures it with an overhand knot, ties the free running end of the bowline into an overhand knot,
and attaches a carabineer to the loop in the knot. The bowline should be just long enough to place the
carabineer at arm’s length, which allows the BTC to remain within reach of the rope bridge were the
BTC to lose grip.
c. The bridge team begins to establish the rope bridge while unit members begin individual preparation.
12-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations
d. Each Ranger puts a carabineer in the end of the bowline and in the front sight assembly of every M4.
M240 and M249 gunners put a carabineer through the front sling attachment point and rear sling
attachment point of their machine guns. The RTO, FO, and others with heavy rucksacks place an
additional carabineer on the top center of their rucksack frames.
e. Rucksacks are waterproofed to protect the equipment inside and to ensure the rucksack remains
buoyant in the water and can serve as a flotation device. Rucksack straps remain tight to prevent the
rucksack from pushing the Soldier’s head forward into the water when negotiating the water obstacle.
f. The team establishes security upstream and downstream while the unit leader briefs the BTC on anchor
points. The BTC counts the Rangers across.
g. The BTC enforces noise and light disciplines and maintains security.
h. The order of Soldiers crossing is based on the METT-TC (I) variables and the locations of key weapons
and leaders in case the platoon makes contact while separated by the water obstacle.
12-7. The bridge team is responsible for constructing the rope bridge. Ranger #1 (lead safety swimmer and far
side lifeguard) grounds the rucksack (with a carabineer through the top of the frame) to the rear of the near side
anchor point and carries a knotted hand line or safety line to assume duties of the far side lifeguard. Ranger #2
(rope swimmer) grounds the rucksack in the same manner as Ranger #1.
Note. Wear equipment in the following order (from the body out):
Waterborne uniform (fastened top and cuffs; unbloused pants).
Noninflatable life preserver.
Carbon dioxide inflatable life preserver.
Field load carrier / Tactical assault panel.
Weapon (across the back).
Swimmer safety line routed over all equipment and secured to the collar of the Army uniform blouse.

12-8. Ranger #1 enters the water upstream from Ranger #2 and stays an arm’s length from Ranger #2. Ranger #1
identifies the far side anchor point upon exiting the water. Ranger #1 disconnects the rope from Ranger #2 upon
exiting the water and then moves to the far side lifeguard position downstream of the rope bridge with knotted
hand line (in nonthrowing hand), field load carrier / tactical assault panel, weapon grounded, and noninflatable
life preserver (in throwing hand). Ranger #1 continues to wear the carbon dioxide inflatable life preserver.
12-9. Ranger #2, in the same type of waterborne uniform as Ranger #1, has the duties to swim across the water
obstacle while pulling the rope and to tie off the rope on the far side anchor point identified by Ranger #1.
Initially, Ranger #2 wraps the rope one time around the far side anchor point and then clips the snap link back
upon the rope. Ranger #2 signals the BTC when this is complete. Once the BTC has tied the figure eight slip on
a bight of the transport-tightening system on the near side anchor point, Ranger #2 pulls all the slack to the far
side and secures the rope by wrapping the rope around the anchor 18 to 24 inches (46 to 61 centimeters) above
the water with a minimum of four turns (the number of turns being situationally dependent) and then attaching
the snap link back upon the rope. (See figure 12-2 on page 12-6.) The direction of the round turns is the same
direction as the flow of the water current to facilitate exiting off the rope bridge.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-5

Chapter 12
Note. Wear equipment in the following order (from the body out):
Waterborne uniform (fastened top and cuffs; unbloused pants).
Noninflatable life preserver.
Field load carrier / Tactical assault panel.
Weapon (across the back).
Swimmer safety line tied with an around-the-waist bowline. The carabiner of the swimmer safety
line routed through an end-of-line bowline no more than an arm’s length and then secured by
reattachment to the swimmer safety line routed around the rope swimmer’s waist (in the vicinity of
the small of the back).

Figure 12-2. Example of tensionless, natural anchor for far side anchor point

12-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations
12-10. Ranger #3 (near side lifeguard) takes position on the downstream side of the near side anchor point
before Rangers #1 and #2 enter the water. Ranger #3 wears the same type of waterborne uniform as Ranger #1.
Ranger #3 grounds the rucksack (with a carabineer through the top of the frame) on the rear of the near side
anchor point. After the PSG crosses and verifies the headcount, Ranger #3 unties the quick release at the near
side anchor point. Ranger #3 is the last Ranger pulled across the water obstacle. Before crossing the water
obstacle, Ranger #3 dons equipment in the following order:
• Waterborne uniform (fastened top and cuffs; unbloused pants).
• Noninflatable life preserver.
• Carbon dioxide inflatable life preserver.
• Field load carrier / Tactical assault panel.
• Weapon (across the back).
• Swimmer safety line routed over all equipment and secured to an end-of-line bowline at the end of the
rope.
12-11. Ranger #4 (BTC) wears the standard waterborne uniform with the field load carrier / tactical assault
panel and a sling rope as a safety line tied in an around-the-waist bowline with an end-of-line bowline no more
than an arm’s length. Ranger #4 is responsible for the organization of the bridge team, construction of the rope
bridge, back-feeding the rope, and tying the transport-tightening system (see figure 12-3 on page 12-8). The
BTC designates the near side anchor point and, upon receiving the signal from Ranger #2 that the far side anchor
point is secure, ties the figure eight slip on a bight of the transport-tightening system 18 to 24 inches
(46 to 61 centimeters) above the water, performing one single turn around the near side anchor point and
clipping into the two interlocking carabineers. The BTC directs Ranger #2 to remove all slack and secure the
rope on the far side anchor point. Once Ranger #2 signals again that the far side anchor point is secure, the BTC
directs Rangers #5 and #6 to pull and tighten the rope. Once the rope is tight, the BTC wraps it around the near
side anchor point with a minimum of four turns (the number of turns being situationally dependent) and secures
it with a half hitch and a quick release. The BTC ensures the transport-tightening knot is on the upstream side
of the rope bridge, all individuals are in the waterborne uniform, all equipment is properly configured, rucksack
straps are cinched tight (which prevents a rucksack from riding forward and pushing the Soldier’s head into the
water when negotiating the obstacle), and personnel are hooked into the rope and facing upstream. The BTC
ensures all weapons are attached to the rope and controls the flow of personnel on the rope bridge. The BTC is
responsible for crossing with the rucksack of Ranger #1 and is generally the next-to-last Ranger to cross,
following the PSG, who is keeping a headcount.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-7

Chapter 12

Figure 12-3. Example of transport-tightening system for near side anchor point
12-12. Rangers #5 and #6 (rope pullers) wear the waterborne uniform with the field load carrier / tactical assault
panel and safety line. They tighten the transport-tightening system. They also take across the rucksacks of
Rangers #2 and #3. Once they reach the far side, Rangers #5 and #6 pull the last Ranger (#3) across.
12-13. Rangers #4, #5, and #6 transport the rucksacks of Rangers #1, #2, and #3. To do so, they hook the
rucksacks into the rope by running the carabineer through the top of the frames and then pulling the rucksacks
across the bridge. They attach their own weapons between themselves and the rucksacks they are pulling.
12-14. The M240 and M249 are secured to the bridge by carabiners on the front sight post and rear swivel. The
M240 is pulled across by the trailing arm of the M240 gunner.
12-15. AN/PRC-119F is waterproofed before crossing a one-rope bridge. Upon the successful establishment of
far side FM communications, the near side RTO breaks down and waterproofs the radio and prepares to cross
the bridge. The RTO places a carabineer in the top center of the rucksack frame (same as for
Rangers #1, #2, and #3). The BTC hooks the rucksack to the rope.
Note. The use of two carabiners binds the load on the rope. Adjust arm straps all the way out. The
RTO pulls the radio across the rope bridge.
12-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations
12-16. Special consideration goes to heavy equipment when the team is crossing a water obstacle with it.
Rangers pulling across heavy equipment as they themselves cross increases the hazard for those individuals.
Pulling across these items with a haul line sometimes requires additional ropes and snap links.

PONCHO RAFT
12-17. Normally, a team constructs a poncho raft to cross rivers and streams when the current is not swift. A
poncho raft is especially useful when the unit is still dry and when the PL wants to keep equipment dry. There
are several things to consider when constructing and using a poncho raft:
• Equipment requirements:
 Two serviceable ponchos.
 Two weapons (or poles).
 Two rucksacks for each team.
 10 feet (3 meters) of utility cord for each team.
 One sling rope for each team.
• Conditions — Poncho rafts are useful for crossing water obstacles with at least one of these conditions:
the water obstacle is too wide for a 150-foot rope; or no sufficient near or far side anchor points are
available to allow for rope bridge construction. Yet, under no circumstances are poncho rafts to be
used to cross a water obstacle when the current is unusually swift.
• Crossing site — Before using a crossing site, leaders conduct thorough reconnaissance of the
immediate area. Analyzing the situation by using the METT-TC (I) variables, the patrol leader chooses
a crossing site that offers as much cover and concealment as possible and has entrance and exit points
as shallow as possible. For speed of movement, the best choice is a crossing site with easily traversed
near and far side banks.
• Execution phase — The procedure to construct a poncho raft assumes Rangers have undamaged
ponchos that will remain watertight. This procedure follows:
 Pair off the unit or patrol to have the necessary equipment.
 Tie off the hood of one poncho and lay it out on the ground with the hood up.
 Place weapons, muzzle to butt, in the center of the poncho about 18 inches (45 centimeters) apart.
 Place rucksacks and field load carriers / tactical assault panels between the weapons with the
rucksacks as far apart as possible.
 Start to undress, bottom to top and boots first (weather permitting). When necessary to serve as the
tie downs in subsequent steps, pull laces out of boots.
 Place boots over the muzzle or butt of a weapon with the toe in.
 Continue to undress, folding each item neatly and placing clothes items on top of boots.
 Once all the equipment is between the two weapons or poles, snap the poncho together.
 Lift the snapped portion of the poncho into the air and tightly roll it down to the equipment. Start
at the center and work out to the end of the raft, creating pigtails at the end. Two Rangers working
together accomplish this more quickly and easily.
 Fold the pigtailed ends inward and tie them off (with a single bootlace as necessary).
 Lay out the other poncho on the ground with the hood up.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-9

Chapter 12



In the center of this poncho, place the other poncho with equipment.
Snap, roll, and tie the whole package as before. Tie utility cord (or the third and fourth bootlaces
as necessary) around the raft about 1 foot (30 centimeters) from each end for added security. The
poncho raft is now complete.

Note. The patrol leader analyzes the situation by using the METT-TC (I) variables and decides the
appropriate uniform for crossing the water obstacle, such as placing weapons inside the poncho raft
versus slinging them across the back or remaining dressed versus stripping down and placing clothes
inside the raft.

WATERCRAFT
12-18. The use of inland and coastal waterways often adds flexibility, surprise, and speed to tactical operations.
The use of these waterways also increases the load-carrying capacity of normal dismounted units. Watercraft
are employed in reconnaissance and assault operations.
12-19. A waterborne insertion annex (see table 2-14 on pages 2-30 through 2-32) undergoes preparation with
the unit OPORD, and the accomplishment of special organization occurs at this time. The PL designates the
most technically proficient Rangers as coxswains.
12-20. The combat rubber raiding craft is a lightweight, ten-person, inflatable watercraft, useful on inland and
coastal waterways. There are five pressure relief valves inside the buoyancy tubes and five separate airtight
compartments. To pump air into the boat, turn all the valves to the INFLATE (orange) section of each valve.
Once the assault boat is full of air, turn all the valves to their NAVIGATION (green) sections. This partitions
the assault boat into eight separate compartments. The characteristics of the watercraft follow:
• Maximum carrying capacity — 2,760 pounds (1,252 kilograms) including engine, personnel,
equipment, fuel, and deck.
• Crew — 10 (not to exceed maximum carrying capacity).
• Overall length — 15 feet, 5 inches (4.7 meters).
• Overall width — 6 feet, 6 inches (2 meters).
• Weight with an aluminum rollup floor — 304 pounds (138 kilograms).
• Weight with a composite rollup — 274 pounds (124 kilograms).
• Weight with a hard deck — 285 pounds (129 kilograms).
• Weight without a deck — 210 pounds (95 kilograms).
• Recommended 40 horsepower / maximum 65 horsepower (maximum engine weight 280 pounds
[127 kilograms]).

PREPARATION, PERSONNEL, AND EQUIPMENT
12-21. Units lash crew-served weapons, radios, ammunition, and other bulky equipment securely to the boat to
prevent loss were the boat to overturn. They ensure machine guns that had hot barrels are cool prior to lashing

12-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations
them inside the boat. See figure 12-4 for rucksack tie down and figure 12-5 on page 12-12 for rigging equipment
in the boat. These are specific preparations, personnel, equipment, and procedures associated with watercraft:
• The rubber boat:
 Each rubber boat has a 12-foot bowline secured to the front starboard D-ring. Tie this rope with an
anchor line bowline and cover the knot with 100 mph tape.
 Each rubber boat has a 15-foot centerline secured to the rear floor D-ring. Use the same procedure
for securing the centerline as for the bowline.
 Each rubber boat has 4 pounds per square inch (276 millibars) of air. Check that all valve caps are
tight and set in the NAVIGATE position.
 Each rubber boat has one foot pump, which is placed in the boat’s front pouch or, when no pouches
are present, on the floor.
 Use the maintenance chart to inspect each rubber boat as appropriate.
• Personnel and equipment:
 All personnel wear work vests, kapok, or another suitable positive flotation device.
 Personnel wear the field load carrier / tactical assault panel over the work vest and unbuckled at
the waist.
 Personnel sling their individual weapons across the back with muzzle pointed downward and facing
toward the inside of the boat.
 Waterproof radios and batteries.
 Pad pointed objects to prevent their puncturing the boat.

Figure 12-4. Rucksack rigging
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-11

Chapter 12

Figure 12-5. Equipment rigging
12-22. When rigging weapons to be lashed to the boat, attach two carabineers to the front and rear of the M240
with a middle-of-the-line bowline connecting the two carabineers. Connect a third carabineer to the center of
the rope. The M249 machine gun also has two carabineers attached to the front and rear with parachute cord
attached to both carabineers. (See figure 12-6.) Rucksacks have one carabineer attached to the top of each pack.
(See figure 12-4 on page 12-11.)

12-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations

Figure 12-6. Weapon rigging

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-13

Chapter 12
12-23. Place the rucksacks in the boat with the frames facing inward and tie them down through the carabineers
attached to the tops of the packs. Tie the end of the centerline near the bow to the left or right D-rings on the
buoyancy tube with a round turn and two quick releases. (See figure 12-5 on page 12-12.) Attach the M240
machine gun to the D-ring at the bow and the M249 machine gun to the centerline by the carabineers, ensuring
the weapon is on top of the rucksacks.
12-24. Each Ranger has a specific, assigned boat position (see figure 12-7), and all have various duties as well
as embarkation and debarkation procedures.
a. Duties.
(1) Designate a commander, who also normally serves as coxswain, for each boat.
(2) Designate a navigator, normally a leader within the platoon, and any necessary observer team.
(3) Position the crew as figure 12-7 depicts.
(4) Duties of the coxswain.
(a) Control the boat and actions of the crew.
(b) Supervise the loading, lashing, and distribution of equipment.
(c) Maintain the course and speed of the boat.
(d) Give all commands.
(5) Paddler #2 (long count) is responsible for setting the pace.
(6) Paddler #1 is the observer, stowing and using the bowline unless another observer is assigned.
b. Embarkation and debarkation procedures.
(1) When launching, the crew maintains a firm grip on the boat until they are inside it. When beaching
or debarking, the crew holds onto the boat until it is completely out of the water. They load and
unload using the bow as the entrance and exit point.
(2) The crew keeps a low center of mass when entering and exiting the boat to avoid capsizing it. They
maintain three points of contact at all times.
(3) The long count is a method of loading and unloading by which the boat crew embarks or debarks
individually over the bow of the boat. It is useful at riverbanks, on loading ramps, and when deep
water prohibits the use of the short count.
(4) The short count is a method of loading or unloading by which the boat crew embarks or debarks in
pairs over the sides of the boat while the boat is in the water. It is useful in shallow water and
allows the boat’s quick extraction from the water. Surf operations are the primary application of
this method of organization.
(5) Beaching the boat is a method of debarking the entire crew at once into shallow water and their
quick extraction of the boat out of the water.

12-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations

Figure 12-7. Crew positions – long count and short count
12-25. The coxswain issues commands for the transportation of the boat over land and its control in the water.
All crewmembers learn and react immediately to all the coxswain’s commands. The various commands follow:
• SHORT COUNT. COUNT OFF. — The crew counts off their positions by pairs such as one, two,
three, four, five, coxswain.
• LONG COUNT. COUNT OFF. — The crew counts off their positions by individual such as one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, coxswain.
• BOAT STATIONS. — The crew takes position alongside the boat.
• HIGH CARRY. MOVE. — Useful for long-distance moves over land, whose conduct follows:
 On the preparatory command of HIGH CARRY, the crew faces the rear of the boat and squats
down, grasping the carrying handles with their inboard hands.
 On the command MOVE, the crew swivels, lifting the boat to their shoulders so the crew is standing
and facing toward the front with the boat on their inboard shoulders.
 The coxswain guides the crew during movement.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-15

Chapter 12
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

LOW CARRY. MOVE. — Useful for short-distance moves over land, whose conduct follows:
 On the preparatory command of LOW CARRY, the crew faces the front of the boat, bends at the
waist, and grasps the carrying handles with their inboard hands.
 On the command of MOVE, the crew stands erect and raises the boat about 6 to 8 inches
(15 to 20 centimeters) off the ground.
 The coxswain guides the crew during movement.
LOWER THE BOAT. MOVE. — The crew lowers the boat gently to the ground by the carrying
handles.
GIVE WAY TOGETHER. — The crew paddles to the front with paddler #2 setting the pace.
HOLD. — The entire crew keeps their paddles straight downward and motionless in the water to stop
the boat.
LEFT SIDE, HOLD. — The portside crew holds, and the starboard-side crew continues with the
previous command.
BACKPADDLE. — The entire crew paddles backward, propelling the boat to the rear.
BACKPADDLE, LEFT. — The portside crew backpaddles causing the boat to turn left, and the
starboard-side crew continues with the previous command.
REST PADDLES. — Crewmembers place their paddles on their laps with the blades outboard. The
coxswain may give this command in pairs (for example, #1s, REST PADDLES).

CONDUCT CAPSIZE PROCEDURES
WARNING
During training in cold weather months, the unit
should adhere to the water submersion chart. The
unit should provide a safety boat for each boat
team conducting this task. All personnel shall wear
the waterborne uniform and a serviceable
noninflatable life vest.
Rig boats for potential capsizing. The coxswain
ensures the securement of all equipment. This
sometimes requires additional tie downs.

12-26. The capsize drill prepares Rangers to safeguard lives and equipment were the boat to overturn.

12-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations

TASK: Conduct Capsize Procedures
CONDITIONS: The platoon is conducting a waterborne insertion using the combat rubber raiding raft.
The platoon has organized into ten-person boat teams. The platoon has all the requisite safety
equipment; all platoon-organic equipment is tied down in accordance with the unit’s SOP. The unit
has communications with higher and adjacent units. Conduct some iterations of this task during hours
of limited visibility.
CUE: The boat team needs to capsize the boat intentionally, which becomes necessary when the
boat fills with water due to rough seas or heavy rainfall.
STANDARDS: Each boat team properly rigs and lashes its boat. Each boat team intentionally
capsizes its boat and then rights its boat. Each team recovers all its personnel and equipment back
into the boat and continues its mission.
TASK STEPS
1. The coxswain gives the command LONG COUNT. COUNT OFF. After the long count, the
coxswain gives the command PASS PADDLES. The crew passes all paddles to the rear of the
boat by crewmembers raising their paddles over their heads (except paddlers #7 and #8) so the
crewmembers behind them can take them. The last two crewmembers hold the paddles until the
boat is righted.
2. The coxswain designates three crewmembers (#2, #4, and #6) to remain in the boat. (They
capsize the boat after the others are in the water.) The coxswain then orders the other members
out of the boat by commanding 1s OUT, 3s OUT, 5s OUT, until only three Rangers remain in the
boat. Once out of the boat, the Rangers move about 3 meters (10 feet) away from the boat.
3. The coxswain designates Ranger #1 (in the water) to hold onto the boat so as to be pulled onto
the boat once the crew capsizes it. Ranger #1 does so by holding onto two carrying handles. The
three crewmembers still in the boat each grasp a capsize line attached to three D-rings. They
stand and lean backward until they capsize the boat. This pulls Ranger #1 onto the boat as it
capsizes.
4. The coxswain designates a Ranger to pull the quick release that attaches the centerline tie down
to the D-ring on the bow of the boat. (Omit this step whenever the three crewmembers can right
the boat without disconnecting the centerline quick release.)
5. Ranger #1 assists Rangers #2 and #4 onto the boat to help in righting it. Ranger #6 (in the water)
holds onto the boat in order so as to be pulled onto the boat once the crew rights it. Ranger #6
does so by holding onto two carrying handles. Rangers #1, #2, and #4 each grasp a capsize line,
stand, and lean backward until they right the boat. This pulls Ranger #6 onto the boat as it rights.
6. Once the boat is righted, all crewmembers move to and hold onto the boat. Ranger #6 assists
other crewmembers back into the boat. Rangers #7 and #8 pass the paddles to the other
crewmembers and receive assistance onto the boat.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-17

Chapter 12

TASK: Conduct Capsize Procedures (continued)
7. When the crew has released the quick release on the centerline tie down, crewmembers then
recover the attached equipment and resecure the centerline tie down.
8. Once all the equipment and crewmembers are in position, the coxswain has everyone count off
using the long count. The Rangers also check and account for their equipment. The coxswain
then gives the crew the appropriate orders and continues the mission.

RIVER MOVEMENT, NAVIGATION, AND FORMATIONS
12-27. It is very important that Rangers understand the characteristics of the river and how to navigate the water
using various formations. Before embarking, it is vital they know the local conditions of the river and its
movement. Terminology and knowledge common to water navigation follow, respectively:
• Bend — A turn in the river course.
• Reach — A straight portion of river between two curves.
• Slough (pronounced SLOO) — A dead-end branch from a river, normally quite deep and
distinguishable from the river by its lack of current.
• Dead water — A part of the river that has no current due to erosion and changes in the river’s course;
characterized by an excess of snags and debris.
• Island — Usually a pear-shaped mass of land in the river’s main current whose upstream portions tend
to catch debris and, therefore, avoidance.
• The current in a narrow part of a reach is normally greater than in the wide portion
• The current is greatest on the outside of a curve; sandbars and shallow water tend to exist on the inside
of the curve.
• Sandbars are located at those points where a tributary feeds into the main body of a river or stream.
12-28. Because Rangers #1 and #2 are sitting on the front port and starboard sides of the boat, they observe for
obstacles as the boat moves downriver. Upon noticing any obstacle on either side of the boat, these observers
notify the coxswain. The coxswain adjusts steering to avoid the obstacle.
12-29. The patrol leader is responsible for navigation. Rangers have three acceptable methods of river
navigation:
• Checkpoint and general route are two. These two methods are—
 Useful when a well-defined checkpoint marks the drop zone and the waterway is not confusing
from a lot of branches and tributaries.
 Best for daylight hours and short distances.
• Navigator observer is the most accurate means of river navigation and is effective in all light
conditions. The requisite navigation equipment includes—
 Compass.
 Global Positioning System.
12-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations






Photo map (first choice).
Topographical map (second choice).
Poncho (for night use).
Pencil or grease pencil.
Flashlight (for night use).

12-30. The navigator sits in the center of the boat and does not paddle. During hours of darkness, the navigator
uses the flashlight under the poncho to check the map. The observer (Ranger #1) is at the front of the boat.
Working together—
• The navigator keeps the map and compass oriented at all times.
• The navigator keeps the observer informed about the configuration of the river by announcing bends,
sloughs, reaches, and stream junctions as the map displays them.
• The observer compares this information with the actual, observable bends, sloughs, reaches, and stream
junctions. As the observer confirms the features, the navigator confirms the boat’s location on the map.
• The navigator also keeps the observer informed about the general azimuths of reaches the map depicts,
and the observer confirms them with actual compass readings of the river.
• The navigator announces one configuration at a time to the observer and does not announce another
until confirmation and completion of each.
12-31. A strip map drawn on clear acetate and backed by luminous tape has proven useful. The drawing is to
scale or a schematic. It illustrates all the curves, azimuths, and distances of all reaches. It can also include terrain
features, stream junctions, and sloughs.
12-32. Various boat formations are useful (day or night) for control, speed, and security. The choice of
formation depends on the tactical situation and the patrol leader’s discretion. Hand and arm signals are the most
useful for controlling the assault boats. The formations are wedge, line, file, echelon, and vee.
SECURE THE LANDING SITE
12-33. When the patrol is approaching an unsecured landing site, a security boat lands, reconnoiters the site,
and then signals the remaining boats to land as appropriate. This is the best way. When the landing site is not
secured before the waterborne force landing, the patrol considers some form of early warning such as scout
swimmers. In this scenario, these Rangers swim to shore from the assault boats and signal the boats to land. The
patrol rehearses all signals and actions prior to the actual operation.
12-34. The assault boats secure the landing site by force by landing simultaneously in a line formation. While
this is the least desirable method of securing a landing site, the patrol rehearses it in the event the tactical situation
requires its use. Arrival at the debarkation point involves several steps:
• Unit members disembark in accordance with the leader’s order.
• Local security is established.
• Leaders account for personnel and equipment.
• Unit continues movement as follows:
 The Rangers pull security, initially wearing their work vests.
 The coxswain and two Rangers unlash and derig the rucksacks.
 The Rangers return in the buddy system or teams, secure the rucksacks, and leave the work vests.
 The Rangers camouflage and cache the boats prior to movement as necessary.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-19

Chapter 12
QUARTERING PARTY PROCEDURES
12-35. A quartering party is a patrol who departs ahead of a main body. Their purpose is to secure, reconnoiter,
and organize an area for the main body’s arrival and occupation. During waterborne operations, the quartering
party leaves early to inspect and prepare small boats such as the combat rubber raiding raft for rigging and
lashing. This saves time and facilitates an expedient and tactical occupation and departure from the beach
landing site. Procedures include but are not limited to the following:
• The quartering party departs ahead of the main body. The party comprises a senior leader, RTO,
security element, and all coxswains.
• The quartering party issues contingency plans.
• The quartering party is counted out but maintains communication with the main body. Perimeter
security undergoes readjustment.
• The quartering party arrives at the beach landing site and establishes local security.
• The party’s senior leader conducts a partisan linkup to coordinate for small boats.
• Upon identification of boats, the coxswains inspect the boats for serviceability and equipment.
• The coxswains use proper commands and lifts to move the boats into position at the actual launch
point.
• The coxswains ready the equipment (for example, paddles, work vests, centerline rope) for the main
body’s arrival.
• The main body arrives and conducts linkup with the quartering party, and security undergoes
readjustment. Information disseminates among leaders.
• The coxswains begin supervising and directing the boat crews to line up rucksacks and to secure work
vests.

WARNING
Coxswains must ensure boats remain afloat during
loading. Equipment and personnel can cause the
boat to rest on the river bottom in shallow water,
which can damage the boat.

•
•
•
•
•

12-20

With the assistance of a crewmember each, the coxswains begin rigging and lashing rucksacks and
other heavy equipment.
Once the crews have secured all the rucksacks and heavy equipment, the coxswains begin directing
the loading of boat crews.
Leaders pull the remaining security elements from the perimeter, but security continues while aboard
to ensure no security gaps.
The PL and PSG maintain accountability.
The platoon is postured for boat movement.

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Waterborne Operations
MEASURING CURRENT VELOCITY
12-36. Determining the current’s velocity is critical to effective and safe covert gap crossing. While using
watercrafts, the current velocity assists leaders in determining the speed traveled for navigation and for hasty
planning purposes. A reasonable estimation involves measuring a distance along the riverbank and noting the
time a floating object takes to travel that distance. Dividing the distance by the time provides the current’s
velocity in meters per second. (See figure 12-8.)

Figure 12-8. Measuring current velocity
12-37. Correlating the desired maximum current velocity with a familiar comparative unit of measure helps in
estimating the current’s velocity. Below are velocities with corresponding speeds in miles per hour and in knots:
• 0.45 meters/second = 1 mile/hour = 0.87 knots.
• 0.89 meters/second = 2 miles/hour = 1.74 knots.
• 1.34 meters/second = 3 miles/hour = 2.61 knots.
• 1.79 meters/second = 4 miles/hour = 3.48 knots.
• 2.24 meters/second = 5 miles/hour = 4.34 knots.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

12-21

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 13
Mounted Patrol Operations
This chapter outlines a technique for conducting vehicle-mounted patrol operations.
Mounted patrol operations present a challenge to the Ranger leader. Trucks and other
combat vehicles produce a large signature in the battlespace and increase the unit’s value
as a target. Vehicle movement is restricted to traversable roads and terrain. (See
ATP 4-01.45 and ATP 3-21.8 for information on mounted patrol operations.)

PLANNING
13-1. When a mounted patrol will be part of the operation, leaders incorporate planning considerations for that
mounted patrol while they use the eight steps of the TLP. A mission analysis using the METT-TC (I) variables
includes the following information, exempting the informational considerations variable due to its excessive
complexity for squad- and platoon-level operations:
• Mission — The PL extracts the following information from the company OPORD:
 Vehicle support (number and type of vehicles and allowable combat load).
 Weather including road conditions.
 Vehicle pickup and dropoff location(s) and markings.
 Vehicle movement timeline (pickup time, movement time, and other information).
 Vehicle routes including primary and alternate checkpoints.
• Enemy:
 Known or suspected locations in the AO or along planned routes.
 Potential locations for ambush or IED emplacement.
 Recent activities or reactions to mounted patrol operations.
• Terrain:
 Potential pickup and dropoff locations.
 Route and pickup and dropoff location evaluations using observation and fields of fire, AAs, key
terrain, obstacles, and cover and concealment.
 Weather effects and road impacts.
• Troops:
 Number of passengers for each vehicle.
 Chalks and chalk leaders identified.
 Tactical cross-load.
 Linkup and marking teams identified.
 Pickup and dropoff security plan.
• Time — Leaders use the reverse planning sequence, which the following list represents:
 Ground tactical plan.
 Unloading plan.
 Ground movement plan.
 Loading plan.
 Staging plan.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-1

Chapter 13
•

Civilians:
 ROE actions with civilians during movement.
 ROE actions with civilian vehicles during movement.

Note. Allocate time for movement, reconnaissance, and establishing security.

13-2. There are five phases of a mounted patrol. Each phase supports the ground tactical plan, which specifies
actions in the objective area to accomplish the commander’s intent for the assigned mission whether a raid,
ambush, reconnaissance, or other follow-on mission.
13-3. The five phases are the staging plan, loading plan, ground movement plan, unloading plan, and ground
tactical plan. These involve the following tasks and conditions:
• Staging plan:
 Establish security.
 Employ markings and recognition signals for day and night.
 Link up.
 Conduct final friendly unit coordination.
 Disseminate information and any changes to subordinate leaders.
• Loading plan for task organization and tactical cross-loading. Leaders assign each Ranger to a vehicle
and ensure the tactical cross-loading of weapon systems and key personnel. The plan includes—
 Vehicle number, key leader, key weapon systems, additional personnel, and communications.
 Location of PL.
 Location(s) of PSG and medic.
 Location of WSL.
 Location(s) of communications (FO, RTO, or both).
• Ground movement plan:
 Ensure troops are awake, alert, and pulling active security during movement.
 Task the PL and vehicle commanders to track route progress.
 Provide a compromise and contingency plan.
 React to IEDs.
 React to ambushes.
 Respond to vehicle breakdowns.
• Unloading plan:
 Dismount vehicles in accordance with the SOP and reverse loading plan.
 Establish security.
 Have the PSG account for personnel and clear all vehicles for departure.
 Establish security at the halt or perimeter.
 Adjust the perimeter appropriately as vehicles depart the area.
• Ground tactical plan:
 Prepare to continue movement.
 Conduct follow-on mission.
13-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations
13-4. The WARNORD brings together the vehicle movement. It contains basic information on the situation,
mission, task organization, any special instructions, initial time organization, and uniform and equipment
common to all. (See table 13-1.)
Table 13-1. Mounted tactical movement brief
ADMINISTRATIVE. PERSONNEL (ROLL CALL).
1. Responsibilities.
a. Driver / Nav.
b. VCS drivers (primary and alternate).
c. CSW operator.
d. Counterassault element leader.
e. Designated marksman or markswoman.
f. Medic / Combat lifesaver.
g. Guide / Interpreter.
h. Higher HQ rep.
2. Sectors of fire: By priority, weapon system, vehicle, and phase.
3. Task organization: Internal organization for mounted patrol—manifest.
1. SITUATION.
a. Enemy forces: Discuss enemy.
(1) Identification of any known enemy.
(2) Composition, capabilities, strengths, and equipment.
(3) Location. (Highlight danger areas on map.)
(4) Most likely and most dangerous course of action: DRAW-D.
b. Weather: General forecast.
c. Light data: EENT, percent illumination, moonrise, moonset, BMNT.
d. Friendly forces.
(1) Units along the route.
(2) Operational support provided by higher HQ.
(3) Aviation support.
[add here] Frequency __________
[add here]
(a) ASOC
Call sign __________
here] Frequency [add
here]
(b) DASC
Call sign [add
__________
__________
here] Frequency [add
here]
(c) JSTARS Call sign [add
__________
__________
(4) Mobile security forces / Quick reaction forces.
(a) EOD. SOF.
(b) Fire support elements.
[add here]
here] Location [add
here] Frequency / Call sign __________
_1_ Element [add
__________
__________
(c) Attachments: From outside the organization.
2. MISSION. Who, what, when, where, why (for example, Unit X conducts tactical mounted patrol to
FOB YY and returns to FOB XX NLT 231000ZDEC03 in order to provide resupply of CL V [ammo]).

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-3

Chapter 13
Table 13-1. Mounted tactical movement brief (continued)
3. EXECUTION.
a. Concept of operations: Mounted patrol execution and tasks of elements, teams, and
individuals at the objective(s). Use broad, general description beginning to end.
b. Tasks to subordinate units: Include attached or OPCON elements.
c. Coordinating instructions: Instructions for all units.
(1) Safety. (See appendix E, Risk Management.)
(a) Overall risk to force: Low
Medium
High
[Indicate one.]
(b) Overall risk to mission accomplishment: Low
Medium
High
[Indicate one.]
(c) Fratricide reduction measures.
(2) Order of march: Spacing of serials; locations of support elements.
(3) Routes: Attach strip map.
(4) Additional movement issues: Speed, intervals, lane, parking, accidents, and other potential
issues.
(5) Timeline.
(a) Vehicle and personnel gear preparation and completion of preventive maintenance checks
and services.
(b) Briefing.
(c) Donning equipment.
(d) Vehicle loading.
(e) Rehearsals and test fire.
(f) Backbrief and confirmation brief from key leaders.
(g) Start point and departure.
(h) Return to base.
(i) Debriefing.
(j) Recovery: Maintain vehicles and personnel gear.
(6) Sectors of fire: Cover assigned sectors while mounted and dismounted. Cover up and down
bridges, rooftops, balconies, storefronts, multistory structures, and crossroads.
(7) Scanning: Scan crowds, vehicles, and roadsides for attack indicators. Note and communicate
indicators throughout the mounted patrol.
(a) Beware of motorcycles, vans with side doors, and dump trucks.
(b) Beware of objects in the road (for example, parked cars, potholes, fresh asphalt or
concrete, and trash).
here] Min / Max: [add here]
[add here]
(8) Mounted patrol speed: [add
__________
__________/__________
(a) Either the rear vehicle’s ability to keep up or the placement of the slowest vehicles in
the lead dictates the patrol’s speed.
(b) Highways and open roads example: 50+ mi/h.
(c) Urban and channeled areas: As fast as traffic allows. Brief evasive maneuvers, bumping
and blocking technique, and ramming techniques that allow for continuous movement of
the mounted patrol.

13-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations
Table 13-1. Mounted tactical movement brief (continued)
(9) Vehicle interval.
(a) Highways, open roads, cloverleaf interchanges, bridges, and ramps: Open spacing. Yet,
vehicles are not to enter the mounted patrol.
(b) Urban and channeled areas: Close interval. Maintain a visual of the tires on the vehicle in
front of your vehicle even when this requires driving on the wrong side.
(10) Headlight status: On or off, blackout, or use of night observation.
(11) Rules of engagement for mounted patrol operations (theater-specific).
(12) Battle drills will be rehearsed: No need to cover in the brief.
4. ADMINISTRATION AND LOGISTICS. (Equipment)
a. Individual equipment: See precombat inspection checklist.
b. Vehicles: See precombat inspection checklist.
5. MISSION COMMAND.
a. Chain of command: Positioning of mounted patrol.
[add
here]
b. Mounted patrol call sign(s):
____________________
c. Area of operations communications and MEDEVAC and CASEVAC plans.
d. Mounted patrol PACE communications.
[add here]
e. Vehicle internal (back to: ____________________).
f. Hand and arm and visual signals: In accordance with the unit’s standard operating procedure.
Legend: ammo–ammunition; ASOC–air support operations center; BMNT–begin morning nautical
twilight; CASEVAC–casualty evacuation; CL V–Class V—ammunition and explosives;
CSW–crew-served weapon; DASC–direct air support center; DEC–December; DRAW-D–defend,
reinforce, attack, withdraw, and delay; EENT–end of evening nautical twilight; EOD–explosive ordnance
disposal; FOB–forward operating base; HQ–headquarters; JSTARS–Joint Surveillance Target Attack
Radar System; Max–maximum; MEDEVAC–medical evacuation; mi/h–miles per hour; Min–minimum;
Nav–navigator; NLT–not later than; OPCON–operational control; PACE–primary, alternate,
contingency, emergency; rep–representative; SOF–special operations forces; VCS–Vehicle Control
System
13-5. Any involvement of a mounted patrol, especially in hostile environments, includes the possibility of an
ambush, a forced stop, or another potentially hazardous situation. Rangers receive thorough training in
maneuvers to enable them to protect themselves and their fellow Soldiers in these circumstances. Figure 13-1
on page 13-6 and figure 13-2 on page 13-7 detail various methods mounted patrols use to react to ambush.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-5

Chapter 13

Figure 13-1. Mounted patrol reacting to near ambush
13-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations

Figure 13-2. Mounted patrol reacting to far ambush
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-7

Chapter 13

FORCED STOPS
13-6. When weapons fire, rocket-propelled grenades, IEDs, or indirect fire force(s) vehicles to stop, activate the
turn signal to indicate the direction of contact. Once the vehicles are not in direct contact, report via internal
communications the identity of the vehicle, type of contact, clock direction, and any available grid coordinates.
13-7. Personnel on vehicles forced to stop dismount on the noncontact side, assume covered positions, and
provide an initial base of fire. The entire patrol halts, the remaining personnel dismount on the noncontact side,
and they provide additional fire. Vehicles not in contact reposition and provide supporting fire.
METHOD ONE
13-8. The PL assesses the situation and maneuver in order to suppress the enemy and gain fire superiority. Once
the PL determines the threat is eliminated, recovery and CASEVAC operations begin. When the PL determines
the patrol cannot gain fire superiority to eliminate the threat, the patrol executes break contact procedures.
Figure 13-3 details method one for mounted patrols to use when forced to stop.

13-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations

Figure 13-3. Mounted patrol forced to stop, method one
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-9

Chapter 13
METHOD TWO
13-9. In this forced stop scenario, all personnel stay in vehicles. Drivers move the vehicles out of the kill zone.
Any vehicles directly behind disabled vehicles push those disabled vehicles out of the kill zone. Operable
vehicles establish a base of fire toward the suspected or known enemy.
13-10. Whenever the patrol gains fire superiority, the PL uses the minimum amount of force necessary to
destroy the enemy. On the other hand, when the PL determines the patrol cannot gain fire superiority, the leader
breaks contact. Figure 13-4 details method two for mounted patrols to use when forced to stop.

13-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations

Figure 13-4. Mounted patrol forced to stop, method two
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-11

Chapter 13
BREAK CONTACT
13-11. Always try to close with the enemy first to prevent their returning later to attack the patrol. When the PL
determines the patrol cannot gain fire superiority and decides to break contact, the PL determines a rally point
to the front, to the rear, or to both. Communications and pyrotechnic signals are useful for breaking contact and
occupying rally points. The patrol deploys any available obscuration measures.
13-12. Using cover and concealment, aid and litter teams evacuate all casualties under fire. The patrol maintains
position and fire suppression in the contact zone and assists aid and litter teams as necessary.
13-13. Leaders direct the towing or destruction of disabled vehicles. Operable vehicles displace forward or
backward under the control of leaders. The most forward vehicle in the contact zone moves first, followed by
the next most forward vehicle. Vehicles continue to displace under supporting fire until contact is broken.
13-14. If the breaking of contact occurs with vehicles on both sides of the contact zone, displacement of vehicles
occurs using an alternating technique. Upon occupation of the objective rally point, leaders immediately position
vehicles to establish 360-degree security, consolidate, and reorganize. Figure 13-5 details how to break contact.

13-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations

Figure 13-5. Mounted patrol breaking contact

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-13

Chapter 13
CASUALTY EVACUATION AND RECOVERY OPERATIONS
13-15. Once the leader assesses the enemy threat is eliminated and the area is secure, CASEVAC and recovery
operations begin. This helps focus Soldiers on defeating and destroying the threat. During CASEVAC
operations, aid and litter teams position themselves on the safe side to extract the casualties and other personnel.
The casualties receive treatment after their safe removal from the contact area.
13-16. During vehicle recovery procedures, recovery teams position themselves on the safe side of the disabled
vehicle. The truck commander dismounts and assesses the disabled vehicle. Whenever a truck commander
determines a vehicle can be recovered safely, the truck commander guides the recovery vehicle into position
and conducts a hasty hookup. The truck commander remains ready and able to operate the disabled vehicle.
13-17. After exiting the contact area, the patrol conducts complete, correct hookup procedures. When the leader
determines outside support is necessary for recovery, the leader contacts higher HQ for guidance. Leaders
abandon or call for the destruction of disabled vehicles. Once recovery operations are complete, the team
displaces and conducts linkup at the rally point. Figure 13-6 details CASEVAC and recovery operations.

13-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Mounted Patrol Operations

Figure 13-6. Casualty evacuation and recovery operations

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

13-15

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 14
Aviation
Leaders fully integrate Army aviation and Infantry units with other members of the
combined arms team to form powerful and flexible air assault task forces. These forces
project combat power throughout the depth and width of the modern battlespace with
little regard for terrain barriers, thereby bringing about deliberate, precisely planned, and
vigorously executed combat operations. They strike the enemy when and where they are
most vulnerable.

REVERSE PLANNING SEQUENCE
14-1. The successful execution of an air assault originates with a careful analysis of the METT-TC (I) variables
and detailed and precise reverse planning. Leaders develop five basic plans, which compose the reverse planning
sequence, for each air assault operation. The battalion is the lowest level with sufficient personnel to plan,
coordinate, and control air assault operations. For the conduct of company-sized or lower operations, most of
the planning occurs at the battalion or higher HQ. The five plans are ground tactical, landing, air movement,
loading, and staging.
14-2. The commander’s ground tactical plan forms the foundation of a successful air assault operation. All
additional plans support this plan. It specifies actions in the objective area to accomplish the mission and
addresses subsequent operations.
14-3. The landing plan, in support of the ground tactical plan, outlines a sequence of events that allows elements
to move into the AO. In this sequence, units arrive at designated locations and at prescribed times. They arrive
prepared to execute the ground tactical plan.
14-4. The leader bases the air movement plan on the ground tactical and landing plans. It specifies the schedule
and provides instructions for the air movement of troops, equipment, and supplies from PZs to LZs.
14-5. The leader bases the loading plan on the air movement plan. It arranges for the loading of troops,
equipment, and supplies onto the correct aircraft. The planning of aircraft loads maintains unit integrity.
Cross-loading is sometimes necessary to ensure survivability of mission command assets and to ensure the mix
of weapons arriving at the LZ is ready to support the fight.
14-6. The leader bases the staging plan on the loading plan. It prescribes the arrival time of ground units
including troops, equipment, and supplies at the PZ in the order of movement.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-1

Chapter 14
14-7. Small-unit leaders consider the size, surface conditions, ground slope, obstacles, and approach and
departure when selecting a PZ or LZ. A minimum circular landing point separation from other aircraft and
obstacles is necessary. The diameters of the PZs/LZs for specific aircraft follow:
• OH-6A = 25 meters (82 feet).
• AH-1 = 35 meters (115 feet).
• UH-60L and AH-64 = 50 meters (164 feet).
• Cargo helicopters = 80 meters (262 feet).
• Any helicopter with a sling load = 100 meters (328 feet).
14-8. Physical hazards such as sand, blowing dust, snow, tree stumps, or large rocks contaminate the surfaces
of PZs and LZs and require resolving. Ground slope also affects landing and is therefore a concern. The
acceptable degree ranges of slopes for landing follow:
• 0 to 6 percent for upslope.
• 7 to 15 percent for side slopes.
• Over 15 percent for no touchdown (when the aircraft can hover).
14-9. When planning the approaches and departures of the PZ and LZ, a useful obstacle clearance has a 10-to-1
ratio. For example, a 10-foot (3-meter) tree requires 100 feet of horizontal distance for approach or departure.
Mark obstacles with a red chemical light stick at night or red panels in the day. Avoid using markings visible to
the enemy.
14-10. Approach and depart facing into the wind and along the long axis of the PZ or LZ. The greater the load,
the larger the PZ or LZ necessary to accommodate the insertion or extraction. The time of day or night requires
different methods for marking the PZ and LZ. Here are examples for both lighting conditions:
• Day — A ground guide marks the PZ or LZ for the lead aircraft either by holding an M4 rifle overhead,
displaying a folded VS-17 signal panel chest-high, or another coordinated and identifiable means.
• Night — The code letter Y or the inverted Y (see figure 14-1) marks the landing point of the lead
aircraft at night. Chemical light sticks or bean bag lights serve under any light discipline. A swinging
chemical light stick also serves to mark the landing point.

14-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Aviation

Figure 14-1. Inverted Y

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-3

Chapter 14

AIR ASSAULT FORMATIONS
14-11. Aircraft supporting an operation uses any of the following PZ and LZ configurations. (See table 14-1.)
The air assault task force commander, working with the air mission commander, prescribes these.
Table 14-1. Air assault formations
FORMATION

PROS

CONS

Heavy left or
heavy right

Provides firepower to the front and flank.

Requires a relatively long, wide landing area.
Presents difficulty in prepositioning loads.
Restricts suppressive fire by inboard gunners.

Diamond

Allows rapid deployment for all-around security.
Requires only a small landing area.

Presents some difficulty in prepositioning loads.
Restricts suppressive fire of inboard gunners.

Vee

Allows rapid deployment of forces to the front.
Requires a relatively small landing area.

Presents some difficulty in prepositioning loads.

Echelon left or
echelon right

Allows rapid deployment of forces to the flank.
Allows unrestricted suppressive fire by gunners.

Requires a relatively long, wide landing area.
Presents some difficulty in prepositioning loads.

Trail

Allows rapid deployment of forces to the flank.
Allows unrestricted suppressive fire by gunners.
Requires a relatively small landing area.
Simplifies prepositioning of loads.

Requires a long landing area.

Staggered trail
left or right

Allows rapid deployment for all-around security.
Simplifies prepositioning of loads.

Requires a relatively long, wide landing area.
Somewhat restricts gunners’ suppressive fire.

PICKUP ZONE OPERATIONS
14-12. Prior to the arrival of aircraft, the PZ is secured. The PZ control party is positioned, and the troops and
equipment are positioned in the platoon and squad assembly areas. In occupying a patrol and squad assembly
area, the patrol leader or SL maintains all-around security of the assembly area, maintains communications,
organizes personnel and equipment into chalks and loads, and conducts safety briefings and equipment checks
of the troops.
14-13. Figure 14-2 provides an example of a large, one-sided PZ. Figures 14-3 through 14-6 on
pages 14-6 through 14-9 demonstrate loading and unloading procedures and techniques.

14-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Aviation

Figure 14-2. Example of large, one-sided pickup zone

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-5

Chapter 14

Figure 14-3. UH-60L loading sequence

14-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Aviation

Figure 14-4. UH-60L unloading sequence

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-7

Chapter 14

Figure 14-5. Tactical loading sequence

14-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Aviation

Figure 14-6. Tactical unloading sequence using door nearest cover and concealment

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-9

Chapter 14
CH-47/CV-22 REAR RAMP OFF-LOAD
14-14. In the rear ramp off-load method, Soldiers exit from the rear ramp of a CH-47 or other rear-exiting
aircraft. Soldiers move out from the aircraft and drop to a prone fighting position to establish 360-degree security
until the aircraft lifts to depart the LZ. (See figure 14-7.) Once the aircraft departs the LZ, the unit executes a
one- or two-side LZ rush in accordance with the landing plan or SOPs.

Figure 14-7. CH-47/CV-22 rear ramp off-load method
14-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Aviation
14-15. Safety is all leaders’ primary concern when Rangers are operating in and around aircraft. The inclusion
of aircraft into Ranger operations brings high risks. The following are some safety tips specifically related to
the UH-60L:
• Approach the aircraft from 45 to 90 degrees off the nose.
• Point weapon muzzles upward when weapons are loaded with blank firing adapters.
• Point weapon muzzles downward when weapons are loaded with live ammunition.
• Wear a ballistic helmet.
• When possible, conduct an aircrew safety briefing with all personnel.
• At a minimum, cover loading, off-loading, emergency, and egress procedures.
• Leaders carry a manifest and turn in a copy to higher HQ.
REQUIREMENTS
14-16. Minimum landing space requirements and a minimum distance between helicopters on the ground
depend on many factors. When the aviation unit’s SOP does not spell out these requirements, the aviation unit
commander works with the Pathfinder leader. The final decision about minimum landing requirements rests
with the aviation unit commander. In selecting helicopter landing zones (HLZs) from maps, aerial photographs,
and actual ground or aerial reconnaissance, consider the following factors:
• Number of helicopters — To land a large number of helicopters at the same time, the commander
sometimes provides additional HLZs nearby. Alternatively, the commander has the helicopters land at
the same HLZ but in successive lifts.
• Landing formations — Helicopter pilots match the landing formation to the flight formation whenever
possible. Pilots modify their formations to accommodate the restrictions of an HLZ no more than
necessary. However, landing in a restrictive area sometimes requires they modify their formations.
• Surface conditions — Rangers choose HLZs with firm surfaces. These prevent helicopters from
bogging down, creating excessive dust, or blowing snow. Rotor wash stirs up any loose dirt, sand, or
snow, which obscures the ground and especially so at night. Rangers remove airborne and any other
debris from landing points to avoid damage to the rotor blades and turbine engines.
• Ground slope — Rangers choose HLZs with relatively level ground. A slope exceeding 7 degrees
jeopardizes the safe landing of a helicopter. Whenever possible, pilots land upslope rather than
downslope. All helicopters can land where ground slope measures 7 degrees or less.
14-17. Day operation signals for daylight operations use a different smoke color for each HLZ. Use of the same
color more than once is possible when its distribution is spread out. The use of smoke is only as necessary—
since it is visible to the enemy—and only when a pilot asks for help locating the HLZ.
14-18. Night operation signals for nighttime operations use pyrotechnics or other visual signals in lieu of smoke.
As in daylight, red signals mean DO NOT LAND, but they also serve to indicate other emergency conditions.
Everyone plans and knows the emergency codes. Each flight lands at the assigned site in accordance with the
messages and the displayed visual aids. Hand and arm signals are useful for controlling the landing, hovering,
and parking of helicopters.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-11

Chapter 14
PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
14-19. To ensure success of the ground mission, leaders plan their own missions in detail. The more time they
have to make plans, the more detailed of plans they can make. As soon as the senior leader receives word of a
pending operation, a mission alert is issued and immediately followed with a WARNORD. These contain just
enough information for the subordinate leaders to start preparing for the operation. These include the following:
• Roll call.
• Enemy and friendly situations (in the brief).
• Mission.
• Chain of command and task organization.
• Individual uniform and equipment (if not discussed in the SOP).
• Requisite equipment.
• Work priorities including who does what, when, and where.
• Specific instructions.
• Attached personnel.
• Coordination times.
14-20. Upon receiving the alert or WARNORD, leaders inspect and appropriately augment personnel and
equipment. Leaders prepare equipment in the following order, from the most to the least important:
• Radios.
• Navigation aids (electronic and visual).
• Weapons.
• Essential individual equipment.
• Assembly aids.
• Other necessary items.
14-21. To succeed, an operation requires security. Each person receives only the information necessary to
complete each phase of the operation. For example, the commander isolates any Soldiers who know the details
of the operation. The situation dictates this extent of security requirements.

ROTARY-WING AIRCRAFT SPECIFICATIONS
14-22. Rotary-wing aircraft are vital for the success of certain missions. The Army relies on different types such
as the UH-60L (see table 14-2), CV-22 (see table 14-3), and the CH-47D (see table 14-4 on page 14-14).
14-23. When fitted with a sling load, the CH-47D technical data package is #5 (100-meter diameter). Without
the sling load, it is #4 (80-meter diameter). Specifications for all three helicopters are in the following tables.

14-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Aviation
Table 14-2. UH-60L specifications
Optics

Pilots use AN/AVS-6 to fly the aircraft at night.

Navigation Equipment

Doppler navigation set or Global Positioning System

Flight Characteristics

Maximum speed (level): 156 knots
Normal cruise speed: 120 to 145 knots
Maximum speed (with external sling loads): 90 knots

Additional Capabilities

The External Stores Support System allows for extended operations (longer than
5 hours) without refueling the two 230-gallon (871-liter) fuel tanks. The System also allows
configuration for ferry and self-deployment flights with four 230-gallon (871-liter) fuel
tanks.
For enhanced mission command, the console provides the maneuver commander with
an airborne platform capable of supporting two very high frequency radios, six secure very
high frequency radios, one high frequency radio, and two ultrahigh frequency radios.
The UH-60L is capable of inserting and extracting troops with the Fast-Rope Insertion
and Extraction System and the Special Patrol Insertion and Extraction System.
Sling load lift rating: 9,000 pounds (4,082 kilograms)
Table 14-3. CV-22 specifications

Weapon System and Range

M2 (Caliber .50 machine gun): 1,800 meters

Communications Equipment

Internal

AN/AIC-30

External

ARC-210 radio

Navigation Equipment

Navigational aid

ARN-147

Flight Characteristics

Cruise airspeed: 240 knots

Maximum carrying capacity: 24 seated troops,
32 floor-loaded troops, or 10,000 pounds
(4,536 kilograms)

Maximum airspeed: 240 knots

Endurance: 500 nautical miles with troops

Radar warning receiver

AN/APR-39A(V)2

Laser warning

AN/AVR-2A Laser Detection System

Missile warning

AN/AAR-47

Electronic countermeasures

ALE-47 Countermeasures Dispensing System

Aircraft Survivability
Equipment

Fuel Capacity

2,025 gallons (7,665 liters)

Other Capabilities

Self-deployable, vertical, or short takeoff and landing

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

14-13

Chapter 14
Table 14-4. CH-47D specifications
Optics

Pilots use AN/AVS-6 to fly the aircraft at night.

Navigation Equipment

Doppler navigation set or Global Positioning System

Flight Characteristics

Maximum speed (level): 170 knots
Normal cruise speed: 130 knots
Maximum carrying capacity: 33 to 55 troops, 24 litters and 3 attendants, or
28,000 pounds (12,701 kilograms)

Additional Capabilities

One alternate configuration allows for additional fuel for mobile forward-aiming
refueling equipment system or for ferry and self-deployment missions.
The CH-47D has an internal load winch to ease the loading of properly configured
cargo.
The CH-47D can sling-load virtually any piece of equipment in the light Infantry,
Airborne, or air assault divisions.

14-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Chapter 15
Tactical Combat Casualty Care
Patrolling, more than some other types of missions, puts Rangers in harm’s way. Trained
medical personnel are not necessarily available at the initial point of injury. For this
reason, Rangers understand CCP procedures and casualty triage, treat injuries by the
principles of tactical combat casualty care, and understand the best methods of evacuation
for moving Ranger casualties to higher levels of care.

GOALS AND PHASES
15-1. Tactical combat casualty care focuses on identifying and treating the most common causes of preventable
death in the battlespace: hemorrhage/bleeding, tension pneumothorax, and airway issues. The three main goals
of tactical combat casualty care are to treat the casualty, prevent additional casualties, and enable the unit to
complete the mission.
15-2. Tactical combat casualty care is organized into phases of care, which start at the point of injury. These
phases are relevant to combat and noncombat trauma scenarios. Paragraphs 15-3 through 15-5 describe the three
phases of care.
15-3. Care under fire, or care under threat, is the aid rendered at the trauma scene while the threat is still active.
Available medical equipment is limited to that carried by an individual or found in a nearby first aid kit. Massive
bleeding is the only medical priority requiring attention during this phase due to the ongoing threat in a
potentially chaotic and dangerous situation.
15-4. Tactical field care (TFC) is the care provided after the neutralization of the threat when the scene is safe
or the casualty is no longer in the immediate threat situation. The performance of a rapid casualty assessment
occurs during this phase. Bleeding control is assessed or reassessed as appropriate. Airway and breathing issues
are addressed. Other injuries such as burns, fractures, eye trauma, and head injuries are now identified and
treated. Medical equipment is most likely still limited. The time of the arrival of medical personnel or of
evacuation varies considerably depending on the tactical situation. This care is usually associated with treatment
at a CCP.
15-5. Tactical evacuation care is the care rendered during and once an aircraft, vehicle, or other mode of
transportation for evacuation has moved the casualty to a higher level of care. Additional medical personnel and
equipment are typically available in this phase of casualty care.

CARE UNDER FIRE
15-6. The mission does not stop for a casualty. Most battlespace casualty scenarios involve rapid medical and
tactical decision making. The combat environment affords no stoppage when casualties occur. Good medicine
is sometimes bad tactics; doing the right thing at the wrong time can result in additional casualties or mission
failure. The tactical situation dictates the order of initial actions. Little time is available to provide casualty care
while the unit is under effective enemy fire. Suppressing hostile fire and gaining fire superiority remain the
priorities to minimize the risk of injury to additional personnel, as well as the risk of additional injury to the
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-1

Chapter 15
casualty, while completing the mission. Personnel sometimes assist in returning fire instead of stopping to care
for casualties; this includes the casualty who is still able to fight. Leaders direct wounded service members
exposed to enemy fire to continue returning fire, to move as quickly as possible to any nearby cover, and to
perform self-aid.
15-7. In care under fire, the utmost priorities are to discover and stop massive bleeding and to get the casualty
and oneself to cover and out of hostile fire. A pulsing or steady bleeding from a wound or traumatic amputation
of an extremity indicate massive bleeding to a caretaker. Upon identifying massive bleeding, the caretaker
applies a tourniquet without delay. Injury to a major vein or artery can result in shock or death from blood loss
in minutes. An extremity (arm or leg) hemorrhage is a leading cause of preventable combat death. The use of
one or more tourniquet(s) to stop the bleeding is essential to the survival of casualties with these types of injures.

TACTICAL FIELD CARE
15-8. TFC is the care rendered by a first responder or CLS once the responder and casualty are no longer under
direct threat from effective enemy fire. This affords the time and relative safety for a more deliberate approach
to casualty assessment and treatment.
15-9. Casualty assessment and management in TFC. Follow the MARCH PAWS approach:
• During threat to life:
 Massive bleeding — Control with at least one tourniquet.
 Airway — Control by opening or with the use of an airway adjunct.
 Respiration (breathing) — Treat all open and sucking chest wounds with a vented chest seal.
 Circulation — Reassess all tourniquets and treat for shock.
 Hypothermia / Head injuries — Dry and warm the patient and prevent further injury to a suspected
head injury.
• After threat to life:
 Pain — Manage with pain medication found in the joint first aid kit.
 Antibiotics — Use those found in the joint first aid kit.
 Wounds — Dress any additional wounds.
 Splints — Splint any fracture.
Note. These are helpful mnemonic acronyms for remembering how to approach casualty assessment
and management systematically and to identify and treat life-threatening injuries promptly, thereby
saving lives in the battlespace and reducing preventable combat deaths.

MASSIVE BLEEDING
15-10. Quickly identify and control bleeding. Apply a tourniquet to arterial bleeding of the extremities, high
and tight and over the uniform. When this does not control the bleeding, apply a second tourniquet above the
first. When tourniquets cannot control the bleeding due to the location of the wound, use combat gauze. Control
all other bleeding with a pressure dressing. Check dressings often to ensure the bleeding is under control.
15-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Tactical Combat Casualty Care
AIRWAY
15-11. Airway obstruction, or a blockage in the airway, usually occurs at the base of the tongue. When this is
the case and there are no traumatic injuries to the face or skull, open the airway using the chin-lift method. When
traumatic injuries exist, keep the airway open with a jaw thrust.
RESPIRATION/BREATHING
15-12. If the patient is having trouble breathing, expose the chest and identify open chest injuries. Check for
entrance and exit wounds. Apply a vented chest seal to cover open entry and exit chest wounds. Place the patient
on the injured side or in a position that allows more comfortable breathing. For suspected tension pneumothorax,
burp the chest seal. When this does not seem to relieve the tension pneumothorax, refer to a medic.
CIRCULATION
15-13. Reassess all tourniquets and stop all other previously untreated bleeding. An inadequate flow of oxygen
to body tissues causes shock. The most common form of shock is hemorrhagic, that which is due to uncontrolled
bleeding. Signs and symptoms of shock include sweaty but cool skin, which is often called clammy; pale skin;
restlessness; nervousness; agitation; unusual thirst; altered mental status; rapid breathing; blotchy, bluish skin
around the mouth; and nausea. Basic treatment steps for shock are to—
• Control the bleeding.
• Open the airway.
• Restore breathing.
• Position the casualty.
• Monitor the casualty’s condition.
• Evacuate the casualty.
HYPOTHERMIA/HEAD INJURIES
15-14. Minimize the casualty’s exposure to the elements. Keep protective gear on or with the casualty as
feasible. Replace wet clothing with dry whenever possible. Whenever the self-heating blanket from the
hypothermia prevention and management kit is available, apply it to the torso along with the blizzard survival
blanket. When these specific items are unavailable, use blankets, ponchos, sleeping bags, or anything that retains
heat and keeps the casualty dry. Constantly monitor any casualty with a suspected head injury for declining
mental status or the need for further evaluation.
PAIN
15-15. Pain treatment occurs once the unit has managed all life-threatening issues. When conscious, casualties
can self-manage their pain with their combat wound medication packs found in their joint first aid kits, or
medical personnel can administer injectable pain medications.
ANTIBIOTICS
15-16. The administration of antibiotics occurs once the unit has managed all life-threatening issues. The
casualty can receive antibiotics in the same manner as pain management. The combat wound medication pack

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-3

Chapter 15
contains oral antibiotics the casualty can take when conscious, or medical personnel can administer injectable
antibiotics.
WOUNDS
15-17. The treatment of wounds occurs once the unit has managed all life-threatening issues. Dress all known
wounds and then assess all the applied bandages for increased pain, skin discoloration, and irregular pulse. These
symptoms are indicative of an emergency or the need to loosen the bandages. Any loosening of bandages
requires fresh monitoring for excessive bleeding.
SPLINTS
15-18. The application of splints occurs once the unit has managed all life-threatening issues. The splinting of
fractures or otherwise unstable extremities has the capabilities of relieving the casualty’s pain and protecting the
extremity from further injury.

CASUALTY COLLECTION POINTS
15-19. During TFC, the mission and number of wounded sometimes render a CCP necessary. CCPs require
security to protect both the wounded and those treating the wounded. The wounded require good cover and
concealment to prevent further injuries. The best location of the CCP is close enough to the wounded that their
treatment suffers no delay, but far enough from any effective fire that no additional casualties are added to their
number. Again, the best placement of CCPs is near HLZs or ambulance exchange points to aid in rapid transport.
Furthermore, the best positioning of the immediate casualties is closest to the HLZ or ambulance exchange
point. The CCP location needs identifying prior to the actions on the objective, but leaders also prepare to do
hasty CCPs while en route to the objective (en route rally points).
15-20. The PSG maintains responsibility of the CCP, which has strict command and control to enable casualty
accountability and prompt treatment. The PSG assigns the appropriate medic and aid and litter teams or Rangers
qualified in tactical combat casualty care to conduct triage, treatment, and transportation of the wounded. The
establishing and equipping of aid and litter teams occurs before an operation commences. Designated aid and
litter teams are aware of the location of the CCPs, ambulance exchange points, and medical treatment facilities
and are capable of navigating to them as necessary. Aid and litter teams receive updates on changes to the
locations of CCPs, ambulance exchange points, or medical treatment facilities as soon as possible to avoid
unnecessary delay in moving casualties and unnecessary exposure of personnel to additional hazards. Aid and
litter teams are familiar with unit medical tactics, techniques, and procedures for CCPs including considerations
for separate areas for those KIA, contaminated casualties, detainees, and civilians. Enemy casualties and the
disposition of enemy equipment require a security plan. The PSG may request additional assets to assist in the
treatment of the wounded based on the number and types of casualties.
15-21. The most medically qualified person triages all patients, helps instruct others in what treatments need
completing, supervises the proper treatments of casualties, or performs lifesaving procedures. Sensitive items
such as weapons, maps, overlays, and communications equipment are considered unit equipment and will be
secured and returned to the unit.

15-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Tactical Combat Casualty Care
Note. Aid and litter teams are a task-organized fire team whenever the situation permits. This
provides internal leaders and communications and enables the team to react to contact were enemy
action to interfere with casualty treatment.

15-22. The triangle method is one of many ways to set up and maintain a CCP (see figure 15-1 on page 15-6
for a depiction of this triangular organization of triage). This method is as follows:
• The tip of the triangle is the entrance and exit control point and the staging point for the medic or PSG
to direct traffic.
• TFC occurs at the CCP.
• The triangle’s left side (10 to 6 o’clock) is for the immediate patients with their heads facing inward.
• The triangle’s right side (2 to 6 o’clock) is for the delayed patients with their heads facing inward.
• The triangle’s base (10 to 2 o’clock) is for the minimal patients with their heads facing inward.
Note. Minimal patients can still pull security while undergoing evaluation for their injuries.
•
•

Expectant patients and those KIA lie away from others in the CCP but are not alone whenever possible.
Depending on the tactical situation, the use of chemical light sticks to mark the legs of the CCP is
permissible during hours of limited visibility.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-5

Chapter 15

Figure 15-1. Example of triage triangle
15-23. Patient triage holds a critical place and requires continuous reevaluation for the entire time patients
remain on the ground. The triage categories follow:
• Immediate — any patient who needs an immediate higher echelon of medical care (most likely
requiring surgery) to life, limb, or eyesight within 1 to 2 hour(s).
• Delayed — any patient who needs a higher echelon of medical care but whose injuries an onsite medic
can maintain in the presence of more urgent patients.
• Minimal — any patient who does not require a higher echelon of medical care and remains capable of
carrying on with the mission if so directed (for example, broken hand, cut on leg).
• Expectant — patients whose wounds are so extreme as to render their survival unlikely even if they
were the only patients and had all the available medical resources dedicated to their treatment and care.

15-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Tactical Combat Casualty Care
Expectant patients remain separate from the others, kept as comfortable as possible, and are not
abandoned.
15-24. A Ranger considers the following greater priorities, still utilizing MARCH (see paragraph 15-9), to
decide how to prioritize the treatment of multiple casualties in the TFC phase:
• Massive bleeding.
• Penetrating trauma to the torso.
• Airway.
• Respiratory distress.
• Altered mental status.

TACTICAL EVACUATION CARE
15-25. Tactical evacuation care is the care rendered once an aircraft, ground vehicle, or other evacuation
platform has picked up the casualty. This phase of care continues the care for the casualty that began in an earlier
phase. Tactical evacuation care is similar to TFC in many ways. However, the extra medical personnel and
equipment on the evacuation asset provide additional care in this phase of casualty care management.
15-26. The concept of tactical evacuation encompasses CASEVAC and MEDEVAC. Nonmedical first
responders or CLSs are not expected to care for casualties during evacuation. However, were this to happen, the
approach (MARCH PAWS) and skills used for care under fire and TFC apply.
15-27. The key principle in tactical evacuation care is that monitoring with appropriate assessment and
treatment continues until medical personnel assume the care of the casualty or until the casualty arrives at a
higher echelon of care. Pre-evacuation procedures include the first responder or CLS documenting all the
assessments and care rendered for care under fire and TFC on DD Form 1380 (Tactical Casualty Combat Care
[TCCC] Card).
15-28. An evacuation request uses the 9-line MEDEVAC format per a unit’s SOPs to initiate a MEDEVAC.
The MEDEVAC request sometimes includes a mechanism of injury, injury type, signs, treatment (MIST) report.
Before evacuation, casualties are made ready for evacuation with their items such as weapons and equipment
secured and with litter and evacuation equipment prepared.
15-29. The performance of a CASEVAC is by any other means than a medical platform. One alternative
involves the Ranger unit’s moving the wounded Ranger to further medical assets by using manual carries or a
rescue and transport system. A CASEVAC that employs aid and litter teams is physically demanding for those
team members. Leaders understand the physical demands and swap out litter team members as necessary in the
sustainment of the CASEVAC support. The same is true for situations that involve manual carries. The tactical
situation, limited number of rescue and transport systems, and the casualty’s ability to move with assistance
sometimes require manual carries. Leaders choose the best means of performing a CASEVAC by assessing the
tactical situation. CASEVAC vehicles can be equipped with crew-served weapons.
15-30. A medical platform with dedicated medical personnel and potentially more medical equipment performs
a MEDEVAC whether by land, sea, or air. MEDEVAC vehicles are properly marked and afforded protections
in accordance with the Geneva Conventions and the law of war. Due to these laws, MEDEVAC ambulances
may not be equipped with crew-served weapons. The Ranger unit is proficient in performing a 9-line
MEDEVAC request and setting up an HLZ.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-7

Chapter 15
15-31. There are several limitations to using CASEVAC instead of MEDEVAC. Some such limitations to
CASEVAC follow:
• A CASEVAC does not provide en route care unless preplanned and staffed.
• The CASEVAC vehicle lacks the medical equipment suite typical of a MEDEVAC ambulance.
• Lack of space often prevents an accompanying CLS or combat medic from performing lifesaving
interventions and even impedes monitoring.
• A CASEVAC vehicle is not a dedicated evacuation platform and has competing requirements (for
example, the movement of ammunition or water). As a result, CASEVAC vehicles are often not readily
available but committed elsewhere.
• The CASEVAC vehicle lacks the protections afforded to properly marked MEDEVAC ambulances in
accordance with Geneva Convention I and the law of war.
15-32. The two major methods Rangers use to mark HLZs for MEDEVACs are commonly called NATO T and
inverted Y. These names refer to the shapes the markers make on the ground.
15-33. To lay out the NATO T marking, Rangers place a marker that establishes their middle, or center, point.
Then, they move 10 meters to their left and place a marker. They return to the center point, go 10 meters to their
right, and place a marker. They return to the center point once more, move down 10 meters, and place a marker.
Finally, they move down 10 more meters and place their final marker. Figure 15-2 provides a visual depiction
of the resulting marker placements that altogether resemble the capital letter T.
15-34. To lay out the inverted Y marking, Rangers establish their middle, or center, point. They move 7 meters
to their left and place a marker. They return to the center point, move 7 meters to their right, and place a marker.
They return to the center point once more, move up 14 meters, and place a marker. Finally, they move up
7 more meters and place their final marker. Figure 15-2 provides a visual depiction of the resulting marker
placements that altogether resemble the capital letter Y on its head.

15-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Tactical Combat Casualty Care

Figure 15-2. Inverted Y and NATO T layouts

MEDICAL EVACUATION REQUEST
15-35. The institutionalization of the procedures for requesting a MEDEVAC occurs down to the unit level.
Table 15-1 provides procedural guidance and standards for MEDEVAC requests. Requests for both ground and
aeromedical evacuation follow the same format. Rangers order MEDEVACs with a 9-line MEDEVAC request,
and transmission of a 9-line MEDEVAC request always travels by secure means. (See appendix B for sample
formats of both a 9-line MEDEVAC request and a MIST report.)
Table 15-1. Categories of evacuation precedence
Priority I—URGENT

Emergency cases requiring evacuation as soon as possible and within a maximum of
1 hour to save life, limb, or eyesight, to prevent complications of serious illness, or to
avoid permanent disability.

Priority IA—URGENT-SURG

Patients requiring both (1) evacuation as soon as possible and within a maximum of
1 hour and (2) far-forward surgical intervention to save life, limb, or eyesight or to stabilize
for further evacuation.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-9

Chapter 15
Table 15-1. Categories of evacuation precedence (continued)
Priority II—PRIORITY

Sick or wounded personnel requiring prompt medical care. The patient requires
evacuation within 4 hours, or the patient’s medical condition could deteriorate to such a
degree to warrant URGENT precedence, requires special treatment not available locally,
or could cause unnecessary pain or disability.

Priority III—ROUTINE

Sick or wounded personnel warranting evacuation within 24 hours but whose condition is
not expected to deteriorate significantly.

Patients for whom evacuation by medical vehicle is a matter of medical convenience
rather than necessity.
Note: STANAG 3204 deleted category Priority IV—CONVENIENCE. However, U.S. Army evacuation
priorities still include this category due to its ongoing necessity in an operational environment.
Legend: SURG–surgery; U.S.–United States
Priority IV—CONVENIENCE

15-36. U.S. Soldiers regularly operate as part of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allied joint task
force. During these operations, Soldiers receive or transmit 9-line MEDEVAC requests to and from NATO
allies. (See ATP 4-02.2 and STANAG 2546 for information on a MEDEVAC request.) To avoid confusion,
Soldiers understand the differences between the NATO and U.S. MEDEVAC request formats. The NATO
MEDEVAC request format differs from the U.S. format in several ways:
• NATO does not use the urgent surgical category. The United States uses the urgent surgical category
to ensure the direct evacuation of a patient requiring surgery to the closest surgical asset. This enables
roll bypass when the closest medical treatment facility (such as a Role 2) does not have the capability
for treatment that another facility further away (such as a Role 2 with a forward surgical detachment
or a Role 3) does have.
• Line 6 on the NATO request only ever requires information about the security at the pickup site. The
information it requests does change between two possible responses depending on the situation like
the U.S. request does. On the U.S. request, when it is wartime, line 6 requests information on the
security at the pickup site, but in peacetime, it requests information on the number and types of wounds,
injuries, or illnesses.
• Line 8 on the NATO request has similar but different patient nationality status codes and definitions.
The primary distinction lies in the U.S. request’s specifying U.S. military or U.S. civilian status, while
the NATO request uses simply military or civilian status. This difference can cause confusion when
patient-regulating policies require specific facilities for civilians or by nationalities.
• Some multinational partners request additional information in conjunction with a 9-line MEDEVAC
request. The inclusion of this additional information is possible by incorporating the MIST report into
the 9-line MEDEVAC request.
15-37. The task steps for initiating a 9-line MEDEVAC request follow. The person making the request decides
up front whether to append a MIST report in order to prepare that concurrently. Neither the 9-line MEDEVAC
request nor the MIST report are formal, standardized forms, but they do follow a widely recognized format that
recipients expect more likely than not. Following the format leads to the swiftest, clearest communication and
the most accurate understanding on the receiving end, so responders arrive informed and prepared, with the
proper expectations.
15-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Tactical Combat Casualty Care
a. Collect all the necessary, applicable information for the MEDEVAC request (and for any MIST report
to be included).
(1) Determine the grid coordinates for the pickup site.
(2) Obtain the receiving unit’s radio frequency, call sign, and suffix.
(3) Obtain the number of patients in each evacuation precedence category.
(4) Determine the requisite special equipment.
(5) Determine whether the patients are ambulatory or require a litter and the count of each type.
(2) Identify whether any patient requires escorting.
(3) Determine the security at the pickup site.
(4) Determine the marking(s) of the pickup site.
(5) Determine the nationality and status of each individual patient and group them into the applicable
types for a count of each category.
(6) Obtain the pickup site’s CBRN contamination information, which is normally available from
senior personnel or medics.
Note. In wartime, line 9 on the 9-line MEDEVAC request provides information on CBRN
contamination conditions. However, such information is included only when contamination exists.
b. Organize the gathered MEDEVAC information into the request format using the authorized brevity
codes.
(1) Location of the pickup site (line 1).
(2) Radio frequency, call sign, and suffix (line 2).
(3) Number of patients by precedence (line 3).
(4) Special equipment required (line 4).
(5) Number of patients by type (line 5).
(6) Security at the pickup site (line 6).
(7) Method of marking the pickup site (line 7).
(8) Number of patients’ nationalities and statuses by type (line 8).
(9) CBRN contamination (line 9) when existent.
c. Transmit the MEDEVAC request.
Note. Transmission varies depending on individual experience levels and the situation.
(1) Contact the unit who controls the evacuation assets.
(a) Make proper contact with the intended receiver.
(b) Use the effective call sign and frequency assignments from the signal operating instructions.
(c) Give, in the clear, I HAVE A MEDEVAC REQUEST. Wait 1 to 3 second(s) for a response.
Repeat the statement for no response.
(2) Transmit the MEDEVAC information in the proper sequence.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-11

Chapter 15
(a) State all the line item numbers in clear text. Transmit any necessary call sign and suffix in line 2
in the clear.
Note. Always transmit the information for lines 1 through 5 during the initial contact with the
evacuation unit. Transmission of the information for lines 6 through 9 sometimes transpires while
the evacuation aircraft or vehicle is en route.
(b) Follow the procedure provided in the explanation column of the MEDEVAC request format to
transmit other required information.
(c) Pronounce letters and numbers in accordance with the appropriate radio-telephone procedures.
(d) End the transmission by stating OVER.
(e) Keep the radio on and listen for additional instructions or contact from the evacuation unit.

15-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Tactical Combat Casualty Care

Example in a Non-CBRN-contaminated Environment
“Ranger 61, this is Ranger 31, I have a MEDEVAC request, OVER.”
“Ranger 31, this is Ranger 61, send your MEDEVAC request, OVER.”
“LINE ONE, 17 PAPA UNIFORM 12345678,
LINE TWO, 35000, RANGER 31,
LINE THREE, ONE ALPHA,
LINE FOUR, ALPHA,
LINE FIVE, ONE LIMA,
BREAK,
LINE SIX, NOVEMBER,
LINE SEVEN, ALPHA,
LINE EIGHT, ONE ALPHA, OVER.”

MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT
15-38. A mass casualty incident, by definition, is having more patients than the organic medical assets can
handle. The most important actions in a mass casualty are to triage patients appropriately and to establish and
manage the CCP. Leaders designate aid and litter teams before the mission. Aid and litter teams comprise
members of the same fire team or squad to ensure proper command and control. Command and control during
a mass casualty is paramount for ensuring emplaced security, accountability of the wounded, and complete and
proper treatment. The Ranger unit sometimes makes, prior to their patrol, bump cards with their battle roster
numbers for each unit member to carry in the same location so leaders can easily maintain accountability of the
wounded and evacuated. The PL and PSG maintain communication with higher HQ to evacuate the wounded
in a timely manner and receive further guidance on future missions.

FIELD SANITATION
15-39. Rangers sanitize their intended potable water with the iodine purification process. The procedure for
using iodine to ensure potable water for drinking, cooking, and brushing one’s teeth follows.
a. Fill the canteen with the cleanest, clearest water available.
b. Add two iodine tablets to each 1-quart canteen of water or four tablets to each 2-quart canteen.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

15-13

Chapter 15
Note. A 2-percent solution of tincture of iodine is a substitute for iodine tablets. Five drops of
2-percent iodine liquid are equivalent to one iodine tablet.
c. Put the cap on the canteen. Shake the canteen to dissolve the tablets.
d. Wait 5 minutes. Loosen the cap and tip the canteen to allow any leakage to flow away from around the
canteen threads.
e. Tighten the cap and wait an additional 25 minutes before drinking.
15-40. The only approved method of human waste disposal is the saddle trench. The straddle trench latrine is
useful when the unit remains in one place for up to 3 days. Each trench is dug 1 foot (30 centimeters) wide,
2-1/2 feet (76 centimeters) deep, and at least 4 feet (1-1/4 meters) long. Multiple trenches are dug at least 2 feet
(61 centimeters) apart. Each 4-foot (1.25-meter) trench accommodates two Soldiers. The excavated dirt remains
at one end of the latrine for Soldiers to retrieve with shovels in order to cover their excrement and toilet paper.
A trench that fills to within 1 foot (30 centimeters) of the top requires the closure of that latrine.

15-14

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Appendix A
Resources
This appendix provides a quick reference for some of the techniques necessary for Ranger
use. It discusses additional information for some methods initially described in chapter
content. Finally, it provides an outline on SE that was not part of the main body of this
publication.

TRAINING BOARDS
A-1. Figures A-1 through A-10 on pages A-2 through A-11 all depict squad-level tasks. Figures A-11 and A-12
on pages A-12 and A-13 and tables A-1 and A-2 on pages A-14 and A-15 depict information vital for a
successful platoon raid. Figures A-13 and A-14 on pages A-16 and A-18 respectively and table A-3 on
page A-17 contain information on how to conduct a platoon-level ambush.
A-2. After the figures and tables, this appendix discusses in depth various techniques and formations useful for
clearing buildings. It also outlines SE to serve as a handy guide.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-1

Appendix A

Figure A-1. React to indirect fire training board

A-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

Figure A-2. React to direct fire contact training board

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-3

Appendix A

Figure A-3. React to a near ambush training board

A-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

Figure A-4. Break contact training board

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-5

Appendix A

Figure A-5. Formations and order of movement training board

A-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

Figure A-6. Linkup training board

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-7

Appendix A

Figure A-7. Linear danger area training board

A-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

Figure A-8. Large, open danger area training board

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-9

Appendix A

Figure A-9. Crossing a small, open area training board

A-10

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

Figure A-10. Squad attack training board

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-11

Appendix A

Figure A-11. Raid boards (left)

A-12

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

Figure A-12. Raid boards (middle)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-13

Appendix A
Table A-1. Raid boards (right) task organization
ELEMENT

WHO

WHY

WHAT

HQ

PL, PSG, RTO, FO, Medic

C2, Mission command

One AN/PRC-119F radio
Two AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

ASSLT 1

Squad (+) (–)

Destroy

Three AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
Two M18A1 claymore mines
One AT4 (antitank) weapon
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

ASSLT 2

Squad (+) (–)

Destroy

Three AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
Two M18A1 claymore mines
One AT4 (antitank) weapon
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

Support

Weapons Squad (+) (–)

Suppress

Three M240B machine guns
Three AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

Two AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)
Legend: ASSLT–assault; ATPIAL–Advanced Target Pointer / Illuminator / Aiming Laser; C2–command
and control; FO–forward observer; HQ–headquarters; NVD–night-vision device; PL – platoon leader;
PSG–platoon sergeant; RTO–radio-telephone operator
Security

A-14

Squad (+) (–)

Delay

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
Table A-2. Raid boards (right) standard operating procedure

RAID BOARDS (RIGHT) SOP
CONTINGENCY

SOP

1. Contingency
1. Enemy prisoner of war search
a. Objective rally point
2. Aid and litter team
b. Leader’s reconnaissance
3. Medical evacuation
c. Occupation
4. Casualty collection point
2. Mass casualties
5. Withdrawal plan
3. Counterattack
Legend: SOP–standard operating procedure

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-15

Appendix A

Figure A-13. Ambush standard operating procedure (left)

A-16

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
Table A-3. Ambush boards (middle)
ELEMENT

WHO

WHY

WHAT

HQ

PL, PSG, RTO, FO, Medic

C2, Mission Command

One AN/PRC-119F radio
Two AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

Security

Minimum of three
Two-person teams

Early Warning
Seals off OBJ

Three AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
Two M18A1 claymore mines
One AT4 (antitank) weapon
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

LSS, RSS, ORP
Security
Support

Weapons squad, WSL

Suppressive Fire
Security on OBJ during
RECON/REORG

Three M240B machine guns
Three AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)

Three AN/PRC-148 radios
One AN/PSN-13 navigation set
Block, Destroy,
Two M18A1 claymore mines
Canalize, Capture PIR
One AT4 (antitank) weapon
One AN/PVS-14 NVD (per individual)
One AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL (per weapon)
Legend: ATPIAL–Advanced Target Pointer/Illuminator/Aiming Laser; C2–command and control;
FO–forward observer; HQ–headquarters; LSS–left side security; NVD–night-vision device;
OBJ–objective; ORP–objective rally point; PIR–priority intelligence requirement; PL–platoon leader;
PSG–platoon sergeant; RECON/REORG–reconnaissance/reorganization; RSS–right side security;
RTO–radio-telephone operator; WSL–weapons squad leader
Assault

Two squads (+) (–)

19 September 2025

Main Effort

TC 3-21.76

A-17

Appendix A

Figure A-14. Leader’s reconnaissance training board

A-18

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources

BUILDING-CLEARING TECHNIQUES
A-3. Rangers need to understand the fundamentals of urban operations, part of which is moving as a unit through
a building. Urban buildings have much larger architectural dimensions and much more complicated floor plans
and interior designs. Safely searching and clearing their interiors requires a thorough, organized effort that
minimizes the chances of surprise and fratricide. Paragraphs A-4 through A-10 cover techniques for
maneuvering through just such an urban environment and techniques for clearing various types of rooms.
CLEARING ROOMS
A-4. On the signal, the team enters through the entry point or breach. As the team members move to their points
of domination, they engage all threats or hostile targets in sequence in their sectors. The direction each Ranger
moves is not preplanned unless the exact room layout is known. However, each Ranger moves in the opposite
direction of the preceding Ranger. The following procedure provides a demonstrative example of this:
• Ranger #1 enters the room and eliminates any immediate threat. Then, Ranger #1 moves left or right
along the path of least resistance to a point of domination—one of the two corners—and continues
down the room to gain depth.
• Ranger #2 enters almost simultaneously with Ranger #1 but moves in the opposite direction, following
the wall. Ranger #2 clears the entry point, clears the immediate threat area, and moves to a point of
domination.
• Ranger #3 simply moves in the opposite direction of Ranger #2 inside the room, moves at least 1 meter
(3 feet) from the entry point, and takes a position that dominates the sector.
• Ranger #4 moves in the opposite direction of Ranger #3, clears the doorway by at least 1 meter (3 feet),
and moves to a position that dominates the sector. (See figure 8-9 on page 8-19, figure 8-10 on
page 8-20, and figure 8-11 on page 8-22.)
DIAMOND FORMATION (SERPENTINE TECHNIQUE)
A-5. The serpentine technique is a variation of a diamond formation that is useful in a narrow hallway.
Ranger #1 provides security to the front. The sector of fire includes any enemy soldiers appearing at the far end
or along the hallway. Rangers #2 and #3 cover the left and right sides of Ranger #1. Their sectors of fire include
any enemy combatants appearing suddenly from either side of the hall. Ranger #4, who normally carries the
M249 machine gun, provides rear protection against any enemy soldiers appearing behind the team. (See
figure A-15 on page A-20.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-19

Appendix A

Figure A-15. Diamond and vee formations
VEE FORMATION (ROLLING-T TECHNIQUE)
A-6. The rolling-T technique is a variation of the vee formation and is useful in wide hallways.
Rangers #1 and #2 move abreast, covering the opposite side of the hallway from the one they are walking.
Ranger #3 covers the far end of the hallway from a position behind Rangers #1 and #2, firing between them.
Ranger #4 provides rear security. (See figure A-15.)

A-20

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
CLEARING HALLWAY JUNCTIONS
A-7. Hallway intersections are danger areas requiring a cautious approach. Figure A-16 on page A-22 depicts
the fire team’s actions upon reaching a T-intersection when approaching along the cross of the T. The unit is
using the diamond (serpentine) formation for movement. (See figure A-16 on page A-22, step A.) To clear a
hallway—
• The team configures into a modified 2-by-2 (box) formation with Rangers #1 and #3 abreast and
toward the right side of the hall. Ranger #2 moves to the left side of the hall and orients to the front,
and Ranger #4 shifts to the right side of the hall (left arm toward the wall) and maintains rear security.
When clearing a right-hand corner, use the left-handed firing method to minimize exposure. (See
figure A-16 on page A-22, step B.)
• Rangers #1 and #3 move to the edge of the corner. Ranger #3 assumes a low crouch or kneeling
position. On signal, Ranger #3, keeping low, turns right around the corner, and Ranger #1, staying
high, steps forward while turning to the right. (The sectors of fire interlock, and the combination of
low and high positions prevents Soldiers from firing at one another.) (See figure A-16 on page A-22,
step C.)
• Rangers #2 and #4 continue to move in the direction of travel. As Ranger #2 passes behind Ranger #1,
Ranger #1 shifts laterally to the left until reaching the far corner. (See figure A-16 on page A-22,
step D.)
• Rangers #2 and #4 continue to move in the direction of travel. As Ranger #4 passes behind Ranger #3,
Ranger #3 shifts laterally to the left until reaching the far corner. As Ranger #3 begins to shift across
the hall, Ranger #1 turns into the direction of travel and moves to the original position in the diamond
(serpentine) formation. (See figure A-16 on page A-22, step E.)
• As Rangers #3 and #4 reach the far side of the hallway, they, too, assume their original positions in the
diamond (serpentine) formation, and the fire team continues to move. (See figure A-16 on page A-22,
step F.)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-21

Appendix A

Figure A-16. Movement formations to clear hallway junctions

A-22

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
CLEARING T-INTERSECTIONS
A-8. Figure A-17 on page A-24 depicts the fire team’s actions upon reaching a T-intersection when approaching
from the base of the T. The fire team is using the diamond (serpentine) formation for movement. (See
figure A-17 on page A-24, step A.) To clear a T-intersection—
• The team configures into a 2-by-2 (box) formation with Rangers #1 and #2 aligning for the left side
and Rangers #3 and #4 aligning for the right side. When clearing a right-hand corner, use the
left-handed firing method to minimize exposure. (See figure A-17 on page A-24, step B.)
• Rangers #1 and #3 move to the edge of the corner and assume a low crouch or kneeling position. On
signal, Rangers #1 and #3 simultaneously turn left and right, respectively. (See figure A-17 on
page A- 24, step C.)
• At the same time, Rangers #2 and #4 step forward and turn left and right, respectively, while
maintaining their (high) positions. (The sectors of fire interlock, and the combination of low and high
positions prevents Soldiers from firing at one another.) (See figure A-17 on page A-24, step D.)
• Once the left and right portions of the hallway are clear, the fire team resumes the movement formation.
(See figure A-17 on page A-24, step E.) Unless the team leaves behind security, the hallway will not
remain clear once the fire team leaves the immediate area.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-23

Appendix A

Figure A-17. Movement formations to clear T-intersections

A-24

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
CLEARING STAIRWELLS AND STAIRCASES
A-9. Stairwells and staircases are comparable to doorways because they create a fatal funnel. The
three-dimensional aspect of additional landings intensifies the danger. The ability of units to conduct the
movement depends upon the direction they are traveling and the layout of the stairs. Regardless, the clearing
technique follows a basic format:
• The leader designates an assault element to clear the stairs.
• The unit maintains 360-degree, three-dimensional security in the vicinity of the stairs.
• The leader then directs the assault element to locate, mark, and bypass or clear (or both) any obstacles
or booby traps blocking access to the stairs.
• The assault element moves up (or down) the stairway by using either the two-, three-, or four-person
flow technique, providing overwatch up and down the stairs while moving. The three-person variation
(see figure A-18 on page A-26) is preferable.
A-10. Figure A-18 on page A-26 best portrays the three-person flow clearing technique. All Rangers work
together, covering each other and focusing on their sectors of fire.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-25

Appendix A

Figure A-18. Three-person flow clearing technique

A-26

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
FOLLOWTHROUGH
A-11. After securing a floor (bottom, middle, or top), the leader selects and assigns unit members to cover
potential enemy counterattack routes to the building. The leader gives priority initially to securing the direction
of attack. Security elements alert the unit and place a heavy volume of fire on enemy forces approaching the
unit. Units guard all AAs leading into their areas. These include—
• Enemy mouseholes between adjacent buildings.
• Covered routes to the building.
• Underground routes into the basement.
• Approaches over adjoining roofs or from window to window.
A-12. Units who performed missions as assault elements remain prepared to assume an overwatch mission and
to support another assault element. To continue the mission—
• Units maintain momentum. This is a critical factor in clearing operations. Units do not allow the enemy
to move to their next set of prepared positions or to prepare new positions.
• The support element pushes replacements, ammunition, and supplies forward to the assault element.
• Units evacuate and replace their casualties.
• Units establish security for cleared areas in accordance with the OPORD or tactical SOP.
• Units mark all cleared areas and rooms in accordance with the unit’s SOP.
• The support element displaces forward to ensure it is in place to provide support to the assault element,
such as in the isolation of the new objective.
SITE EXPLOITATION
A-13. Sensitive SE is the collection and analysis of information, materials, and persons from a designated
location to answer information requirements, facilitate subsequent operations, or support criminal prosecution.
The duties and responsibilities of the SE members follow:
• TL:
 Gathers mission planning products.
 Briefs sensitive SE during the WARNORD and OPORD.
 Preplans objective search priorities.
 Establishes premission checks and rehearsals.
 Coordinates exploitation tasking and prioritization.
 Establishes priority rooms.
 Directs activities on the target.
 Orchestrates and leads the backbrief.
• Assistant TL:
 Conducts an inventory of the sensitive SE kit.
 Conducts precombat inspections.
 Conducts rehearsals and rock drills with the TL.
 Determines the marshalling area.
 Determines the evidence placement point.
 Prepares and packages evidence for transfer.
 Sketches the objective.
 Records events.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-27

Appendix A
•

•

•

Searchers (working in two-person teams as feasible):
 Train any additional searchers.
 Assist with sensitive SE kit inventories.
 Conduct precombat inspections.
 Conduct rehearsals.
 Assist with the packaging and labeling of evidence.
 Communicate all findings to the TL, tactical questioner, or both.
Marshalling officer:
 Conducts precombat inspections on equipment.
 Conducts a detailed search of the marshalling area.
 Collects biometrics on those in the marshalling area.
Tactical questioner:
 Assists with the collection of detainees’ biometrics.
 Communicates the collected PIR to the TL.
 Helps searchers with information gathering and organization.
 Prioritizes all personnel under control.
 Prepares questions during precombat inspections.

A-14. During the initial assessment, the team conducts 5- and 25-meter (16- to 82-foot) checks around the
target, looking toward and away from the target building. The TL determines how much time is left on target,
what support is available, who is on target, and what has been found on target, while the assistant TL determines
the marshalling area. The TL and assistant TL conduct the initial walkthrough of the target; the TL has the
assistant TL walk through the target building and discuss what was found on target. The TL labels rooms while
moving through the target; the assistant TL labels rooms when the TL is busy. The assistant TL sketches the
target to include the priority of the rooms based on the walkthrough and PIRs. The TL prioritizes the rooms in
the order of the importance of their search.
A-15. During a room and building search, the TL determines the priority area. The team searches this area first
and then completes a systematic, 360-degree search of the entire room. Conduct in the searching of a room is as
follows:
• Use clockwise movement and a low, then medium, and finally high search pattern to cover all areas.
Label any drop holes and false walls.
• Move all cleared items such as tables, chairs, and pots to the center of the room.
• Place evidence bags in the evidence placement point for use while searching the room. Later, move
items from the individual room’s evidence placement point to the centralized evidence placement
point.
• At least two people search each room as follows:
 Mark the label of the room with the letter X upon the completion of its search. The X-mark
confirms two people have searched the room.
 Search all remaining rooms in clockwise order at their low, medium, and high points.
• The assistant TL continues to sketch, identifying dead space in the building’s evidence placement point
and ensuring the point is in an already searched and cleared area.
A-16. The marshalling officer and TQ person clear the marshalling area, set up two pits, and then clear the area
where the unit found the detainees on target. The two pits are called dirty and clean. The dirty pit is for those
A-28

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Resources
detainees searched once for weapons. The clean pit is for those detainees who have undergone a detailed search
for any items.
A-17. In the marshalling area, the marshalling officer and TQ person search all the detainees, collect the
detainees’ biometrics, separate the detainees, and relay all information to the TL. They conduct two searches.
The first search ensures the detainees do not have weapons and occurs in the dirty pit. At this time, the team
places flex cuffs and a detainee bag on the detainee. The second search is a systematic search of a detainee’s
person—from top to bottom, front to back, and left to right—in the clean pit, a search that also examines every
article of clothing. When collecting detainees’ biometrics, the marshalling officer and TQ person collect
fingerprints, an iris scan, and a photo with the secure biometric live scan device or a ten-print card. They collect
all media devices for further exploitation. The TQ person separates individuals from the other detainees to
question further. The TQ person and marshalling officer relay all pertinent information to the TL to assist in
decision making.
A-18. Upon mission completion, the TL collapses the objective and conducts a final walkthrough to ensure no
signs of U.S. tactics, techniques, and procedures remain on target. The TL ensures accountability of personnel,
weapons, equipment items, and detainees found on target and prepares for exfiltration.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

A-29

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix B
Quick Reference Cards
The intent of this appendix is for quick reference for Rangers in training or the field. It
provides illustrations or tabular information useful in completing various forms and
formatted reports frequently required of Rangers.

REFERENCE CARDS
B-1. Figures B-1 through B-4, appearing across pages B-2 through B-5, depict critical reference cards Rangers
routinely use during missions. These include a reference card for IEDs and unexploded explosive ordnances,
DA Form 5517 (Standard Range Card), sample formats of the 9-line MEDEVAC request and the MIST report.
Rangers should also familiarize themselves with DD Form 1380. Table B-1 on pages B-6 through B-8 explains
in greater depth the content for the line items in the 9-line MEDEVAC request format that chapter 15 initially
introduced.
B-2. Although this publication introduced some of them earlier, these reference cards in this appendix serve as
handy reminders for Rangers in the field. Check periodically for updated information on the Army Training
Network.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

B-1

Appendix B

Figure B-1. Improvised explosive device or unexploded explosive ordnance reference card

B-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Quick Reference Cards

Figure B-2. Example of DA Form 5517, Standard Range Card (with final protective line)

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

B-3

Appendix B

Figure B-3. Example of DA Form 5517, Standard Range Card

B-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Quick Reference Cards

Figure B-4. Examples of a 9-line medical evacuation request and a mechanism of injury, injury type,
signs, treatment report
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

B-5

Appendix B
Table B-1. Explanations of the nine lines on a medical evacuation request
Item

Explanation

Where and How
Obtained

Normal
Provider

Reason

1

Location of
pickup site

Grid coordinates of the
pickup site are sent by
secure communication.
To prevent confusion,
the grid zone letters are
included in the
message.

From map or
navigational device,
determine the
military grid
reference system
six- or eight-digit
grid coordinates of
the pickup site.

Unit leader(s)

Required so the
evacuation vehicle
knows where to pick up
the patient(s). Also
required when the
evacuation vehicle is
picking up from more
than one location and
the unit coordinating
the evacuation mission
is planning the route.

2

Radio
frequency,
call sign, and
suffix

Frequency of the radio
at the pickup site and
not a relay frequency.
The call sign and any
suffix of the contact
person at the pickup
site is transmittable in
the clear.

From automated
net control device
or other approved
means.

Radio
transmission
operator

Required to enable the
evacuation vehicle to
contact the requesting
unit while en route and
obtain additional
information or changes
in the situation or
directions.

3

Number of
patients by
precedence

A—URGENT
B—URGENT-SURG
C—PRIORITY
D—ROUTINE
E—CONVENIENCE
If the same request is
reporting two or more
categories, insert the
word break between
each category.

From evaluation of
patient(s).

Medic or
senior person
present

Required by the unit
controlling the vehicles
to assist in prioritizing
missions.

4

Special
equipment
required

A—None
B—Hoist
C—Extraction
equipment
D—Ventilator

From evaluation of
patient(s) or
situation.

Medic or
senior person
present

Required so the
equipment is placed
aboard the evacuation
vehicle prior to the start
of the mission.

Line

B-6

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Quick Reference Cards
Table B-1. Explanations of the nine lines on a medical evacuation request (continued)
Item

Explanation

Where and How
Obtained

Normal
Provider

Reason

5

Number of
patients by
type

Report only applicable
information. When
requesting evacuation
for both types, insert
the word break
between the litter and
ambulatory entries.
L+# of patients–Litter
A+# of patients–
Ambulatory (sitting)

From evaluation of
patient(s).

Medic or
senior person
present

Required so the
appropriate number of
evacuation vehicles
dispatch to the pickup
site and are
appropriately
configured to carry the
patients requiring
evacuation.

6

[in wartime]
Security at
pickup site

N—No enemy troops in
area
P—Possibly enemy
troops in area;
approach with
caution
E—Enemy troops in
area; approach with
caution
X—Enemy troops in
area; armed escort
required

From evaluation of
situation.

Unit leader(s)

Required to assist the
evacuation crew in
assessing the situation
and determining the
need for assistance.
The evacuation vehicle
often receives more
definitive guidance
while en route, such as
the enemy’s specific
location to assist in
planning an aircraft’s
approach.

[in
peacetime]
Number and
type of
wounds,
injuries, and
illnesses

Specific information
regarding any patient’s
wounds by type (for
example, gunshot or
shrapnel). Report
serious bleeding along
with the patient’s blood
type if known.

From evaluation of
patient(s).

Medic or
senior person
present

Required to assist
evacuation personnel
in determining
necessary treatments
and special equipment.

Line

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

B-7

Appendix B
Table B-1. Explanations of the nine lines on a medical evacuation request (continued)
Line

Item

Explanation

Where and How
Obtained

Normal
Provider

Reason

7

Method of
marking
pickup site

A—Panels
B—Pyrotechnic signal
C—Smoke signal
D—None
E—Other

From evaluation
of situation and
materiel
availability.

Medic or
senior person
present

Required to assist the
evacuation crew in
identifying the specific
pickup location. Do not
transmit the panel or
smoke color until the
evacuation vehicle
contacts the unit prior
to arrival. For security,
the crew identifies the
color, and the unit
verifies it.

8

Patient
nationality
and status

A—U.S. military
B—U.S. citizen
C—Non-U.S. military
D—Non-U.S. citizen
E—Enemy prisoner of
war
The transmission of the
number of patients in
each category is
unnecessary.

From evacuation
platform.

Medic or
senior person
present

Required to assist in
planning for destination
facilities and any need
for guards. The unit
requesting support
ensures an
English-speaking
representative is
present at the pickup
site.

9

[in wartime]
Chemical,
biological,
radiological,
and nuclear
contamination

C—Chemical
B—Biological
R—Radiological
N—Nuclear
Include this line only
when applicable.

From evaluation
of situation.

Medic or
senior person
present

Required to assist in
mission planning.
Determine which
evacuation vehicle will
accomplish the mission
and when the mission
will be accomplished.

Present
personnel

Required for
evacuation personnel
to assess a route or
avenue of approach
into the area. Becomes
particularly important in
hoist operations.

[in
peacetime]
Terrain
description

Include details of terrain
From area
features in and around
survey.
the proposed landing site.
Describe the site relative
to any prominent terrain
features such as a lake,
mountain, or tower.
Legend: #–number; SURG–surgery; U.S.–United States
B-8

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Source Notes
This section lists sources by page number and in the order in which they appear in the
publication.
xix, Ranger Creed: “Recognizing that I volunteered . . . ”: Command Sergeant Major Neal Gentry,
“Ranger Creed,” https://www.benning.army.mil/Tenant/75thRanger/RangerCreed.html.
8-1, React to Direct Fire Contact While Dismounted – Platoon (07-PLT-D9501): “Conditions: The
platoon is conducting . . . to maneuver the platoon.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task)
07-PLT-D9501, 1−5.
8-4, React to Direct Fire Contact While Dismounted – Squad (07-SQD-D9501): “Conditions: The
squad is conducting . . . to maneuver the squad.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task)
07-SQD-D9501, 1−5.
8-7, Conduct a Platoon Assault (07-PLT-D9514): “Conditions: The platoon is conducting . . . to the
company commander.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9514, 1–6.
8-10, Conduct a Squad Assault (07-SQD-D9515): “Conditions: The squad is conducting . . . to the
platoon leader.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9515, 1–5.
8-13, Break Contact – Platoon (07-PLT-D9505): “Conditions: The platoon is conducting . . .
designated rally point.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9505, 1–5.
8-17, Break Contact – Squad (07-SQD-D9505): “Conditions: The squad is conducting . . .
designated rally point.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9505, 1–5.
8-21, React to Ambush (Dismounted) – Platoon (07-PLT-D9502): “Conditions: The platoon is
conducting . . . reports the contact.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9502, 1−5.
8-25, React to Ambush (Dismounted) – Squad (07-SQD-D9502): “Conditions: The squad is
conducting . . . reports the contact.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9502, 1−5.
8-29, Enter and Clear a Room – Squad (07-SQD-D9509): “Conditions: The squad is conducting . . .
reorganizes, as needed.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9509, 1–5.
8-33, React to Indirect Fire While Dismounted – Platoon (07-PLT-D9504): “Conditions: The platoon
is conducting . . . reports the contact.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9504, 1−3.
8-34, React to Indirect Fire While Dismounted – Squad (07-SQD-D9504): “Conditions: The squad is
conducting . . . reports the action.”: Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9504, 1−3.

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

Source Notes-1

This page intentionally left blank.

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms with Army or joint definitions.

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
#
5-S
AA
ADP
AO
AR
AT
ATP
BTC
CAS
CASEVAC
CBRN
CCP
CLS
COA
DA
DA Pam
DD
EPW
FDC
FM
FO
FRAGORD
GEAR
GOTWA
HE
HLZ
HQ

19 September 2025

number
search, silence, segregate, safeguard, speed to rear
avenue of approach
Army doctrine publication
area of operations
Army regulation
antitank
Army techniques publication
bridge team commander
close air support
casualty evacuation
chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
casualty collection point
combat lifesaver
course of action
Department of the Army
Department of the Army pamphlet
Department of Defense (form)
enemy prisoner of war
fire direction center
field manual; frequency modulation
forward observer
fragmentary order
gauge, evaluate, analyze, reduce
going, others, time, what, action
high explosive
helicopter landing zone
headquarters

TC 3-21.76

Glossary-1

Glossary
IED
KIA
LACE
LOA
LZ
MARCH PAWS

MCO
MCRP
MDI
MEDEVAC
METT-TC (I)
MIST
mm
MOPP
mph
NATO
NLT
NVD
OP
OPORD
PACE
PB
PIR
PL
PLT-D
PSG
PZ
R&S
RED
RP
RTO
Glossary-2

improvised explosive device
killed in action
liquids, ammunition, casualties, and equipment
limit of advance
landing zone
massive bleeding, airway, respiration, circulation, hypothermia and head
injuries
pain, antibiotics, wounds, splints
Marine Corps order
Marine Corps reference publication
modernized demolition initiator
medical evacuation
mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time
available, civil considerations, and informational considerations
mechanism of injury, injury type, signs, treatment
millimeter
mission-oriented protective posture
miles per hour
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
not later than
night-vision device
observation post
operation order
primary, alternate, contingency, emergency
patrol base
priority intelligence requirement
platoon leader
platoon drill
platoon sergeant
pickup zone
reconnaissance and surveillance
risk estimate distance
release point
radio-telephone operator
TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Glossary
SALUTE
SE
SL
SOP
SQD-D
STANAG
STP
SW
TC
TFC
TL
TLP
TM
TO
TQ
U.S.
WARNORD
WP
WSL

19 September 2025

size, activity, location, unit, time, and equipment
site exploitation
squad leader
standard operating procedure
squad drill
standardization agreement
Soldier training publication
surface warfare
training circular
tactical field care
team leader
troop leading procedures
technical manual
technical order
tactical questioning
United States
warning order
white phosphorus
weapons squad leader

TC 3-21.76

Glossary-3

This page intentionally left blank.

References
All websites accessed on 15 July 2025.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. May 2025.
FM 1-02.1. Operational Terms. 28 February 2024.
FM 1-02.2. Military Symbols. 23 January 2025.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
These documents are cited in this publication.
ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil. Most battle drills are available
online: https://rdl.train.army.mil/.
ADP 3-0. Operations. 21 March 2025.
AR 385-63/MCO 3570.1D. Range Safety. 23 May 2025.
ATP 3-06.11. Brigade Combat Team Urban Operations. 27 September 2024.
ATP 3-09.32/MCRP 3-31.6/NTTP 3-09.2/AFTTP 3-2.6. Multi-service Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures for Joint Application of Firepower. 29 November 2023.
ATP 3-21.8. Infantry Rifle Platoon and Squad. 11 January 2024.
ATP 4-01.45/MCRP 3-40F.7/NTTP 4-01.6/AFTTP 3-2.58. Multi-service Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures for Tactical Convoy Operations. 26 March 2021.
ATP 4-02.2. Medical Evacuation. 12 July 2019.
ATP 5-19. Risk Management. 9 November 2021.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9501. React to Direct Fire Contact While Dismounted–Platoon.
26 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9502. React to Ambush (Dismounted)–Platoon. 26 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9504. React to Indirect Fire While Dismounted–Platoon. 26 July
2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9505. Break Contact–Platoon. 26 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-PLT-D9514. Conduct a Platoon Assault. 30 August 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9501. React to Direct Fire Contact While Dismounted–Squad.
26 July 2022.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

References-1

References
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9502. React to Ambush (Dismounted)–Squad. 26 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9504. React to Indirect Fire While Dismounted–Squad.
26 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9505. Break Contact–Squad. 26 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9509. Enter and Clear a Room–Squad. 11 July 2022.
Battle Drill (Drill Task) 07-SQD-D9515. Conduct a Squad Assault. 11 July 2022.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C. The Commander’s Handbook on the Law of Land Warfare. 7 August 2019.
FM 7-0. Training. 14 June 2021.
TC 3-22.19. Grenade Machine Gun MK19 Mod 3. 10 May 2017.
TC 3-22.50. Heavy Machine Gun M2 Series. 19 May 2017.
TC 3-22.240. Medium Machine Gun. 28 April 2017.
TC 3-22.249. Light Machine Gun M249 Series. 16 May 2017.
TC 3-97.61. Military Mountaineering. 26 July 2012.
TM 3-34.82/MCRP 3-34.2. Explosives and Demolitions. 7 March 2016.
TM 9-1005-201-10/Air Force TO 11W3-5-5-51/Marine Corps TM 08671A-10/1B. Operator Manual
for Machine Gun, 5.56mm, M249 w/Equip; (NSN 1005-01-127-7510) (EIC: 4BG) (AR
Role); (NSN 1005-01-451-6769) (EIC: 4BK) (LMG Role). 31 May 2019.
TM 9-1005-213-10/Air Force TO 11W2-6-3-161/Marine Corps TM 1005-10/1/NAVSEA SW360AW-OPI-010. Technical Manual for Machine Gun, Caliber .50: M2A1 with Fixed
Headspace and Timing (NSN 1005-01-511-1250) (EIC: 4AZ) . . . . 21 August 2017.
(CUI) TM 9-1005-313-10/Air Force TO 11W2-6-5-1/Marine Corps TM 09712B-10/Navy SW360AH-OPI-010 Rev 1. Operator Manual for Machine Gun, 7.62 mm, M240 (NSN
1005-01-025-8095) P/N 11826290 (EIC 4BD) . . . . 15 May 2022.
TM 9-1010-230-10/Air Force TO 11W2-5-16-1/Marine Corps TM 08521A-OR/1/Navy SW363-C3MMM-010. Technical Manual Operator’s Manual for Machine Gun, 40 mm, MK19
Mod 3 (NSN 1010-01-126-9063) (EIC 4AE) . . . . 31 August 2012.
(CUI) TM 9-1010-233-10. Operator Manual for Lightweight Company Mortar, 60mm, M224A1
(NSN 1010-01-586-2874) (EIC 4ST). 30 July 2024.
TM 9-1015-249-10/Marine Corps TM 09922A-10/1. Technical Manual Operator’s Manual for
Mortar, 81 mm, M252 (NSN 1015-01-164-6651) (EIC 4SK). 10 August 2012.
TM 9-1015-257-10. Technical Manual Operator Manual for Mortar, 81-mm, M252A1
(NSN 1015-01-586-2135) (EIC: 4SU). 25 August 2014.

References-2

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

References
OTHER PUBLICATIONS
Standardization Agreements are available online: https://nso.nato.int/nso/nsdd/main/list-promulg.
STANAG 2546. Allied Joint Medical Doctrine for Medical Evacuation, Edition 2. 29 August 2018.
STANAG 3204. Aeromedical Evacuation. 6 July 2020.
WEBSITES
Army Training Network. https://atn.army.mil/.
Department of Defense Law of War Manua. https://www.defense.gov/.
First Geneva Convention: Convention (I) for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded and
Sick in Armed Forces in the Field, 12 August 1949. https://www.icrc.org/en/war-andlaw/treaties-customary-law/geneva-conventions.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil. DD forms are available online:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms.
DA Form 1156. Casualty Feeder Card.
DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.
DA Form 5517. Standard Range Card.
DD Form 1380. Tactical Combat Casualty Care (TCCC) Card. Printed forms are available through
normal forms supply channels.

RECOMMENDED READINGS
These documents contain relevant supplemental information not cited in the publication. Most Army doctrinal
publications are available online: https://armypubs.army.mil.
ADP 6-22. Army Leadership and the Profession. 31 July 2019.
AR 350-1. Army Training and Leader Development. 1 June 2025.
ATP 3-09.42. Fire Support for the Brigade Combat Team. 1 March 2016.
ATP 3-18.12. Special Forces Waterborne Operations. 16 December 2022.
ATP 3-18.14. Special Forces Ground Mobility Operations Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures.
15 July 2022.
ATP 3-21.50. Infantry Small-Unit Mountain and Cold Weather Operations. 27 August 2020.
ATP 3-75. Ranger Operations. 26 June 2015.
19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76

References-3

References
ATP 6-02.53. Techniques for Tactical Radio Operations. 13 February 2020.
ATP 6-02.72/MCRP 3-30B.3/NTTP 6-02.2/AFTTP 3-2.18. TAC Radios: Multi-Service Tactics,
Techniques, and Procedures for Tactical Radios. 14 July 2021.
FM 3-09. Fire Support and Field Artillery Operations. 12 August 2024.
FM 6-02. Signal Support to Operations. 13 September 2019.
FM 6-99. U.S. Army Report and Message Formats. 17 May 2021.
STP 21-1-SMCT. Soldier’s Manual of Common Tasks Warrior Skills Level 1. 16 October 2023.
TC 3-25.26. Map Reading and Land Navigation. 15 November 2013.
TC 8-800. Medical Education and Demonstration of Individual Competence. 15 December 2021.
TC 18-35. Special Forces Tracking and Countertracking. 11 May 2023.
TM 3-22.31. 40-mm Grenade Launchers. 17 November 2010.
Journals of Major Robert Rogers: Reprinted from the original edition of 1765. Henry Bamford
Parkes, New York: Corinth Books. 1961.

SOURCES USED
Ranger Creed, Command Sergeant Major Neal Gentry, 1974. https://www.benning.army.mil
/Tenant/75thRanger/index.html.

References-4

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.

5
5-S rule. 2-18

A
air assault formations.
14-11

command sequence.
9-48
mechanical. 9-46
boat formations. 12-32

C
carabiners. 9-27

aircraft landing space
requirements. 14-16

casualty criterion. 3-6

ambush. 7-38
deliberate. 7-39, 7-42
hasty. 7-39, 7-40

combat rubber raiding
craft. 12-20

AN/PRC-119F. 4-3, 12-15
troubleshooting. 4-4
anchors. 9-30
bowline. 9-43
constant tension.
9-33
antenna
construction. 4-11
expedient 292-type.
4-15
length-planning. 4-17
whip. 4-7
wire. 4-8
avoiding detection. 7-21

B
belaying. 9-44
air traffic controller.
9-47
body. 9-45
19 September 2025

charges. 5-6

controlled occupation.
10-19
curvature of the Earth.
4-20

E
explosives. 5-1
MDI blasting caps.
5-2
safety. 5-7

F

forward observer. 1-23

G
GOTWA. 7-14

H
hitches
clove. 9-35, 9-36
Munter. 9-40
horizontal lift. 9-15

K
knots. 9-31
bowline. 9-43
figure eight. 9-34,
9-38, 9-39
Munter mule. 9-41
Prusik. 9-42
slipknot. 9-39
square. 9-32

L
limited visibility. 6-18

fire support overlay. 3-8

M

first aid
airway obstructions.
15-11
bleeding. 15-10
fractures. 15-18
hypothermia. 15-14
shock. 15-13

machine guns. 10-1
ammunition planning.
10-28
base of fire. 10-11
M2. 10-9
M240B. 10-8
M249. 10-8

TC 3-21.76

Index-1

Index
maneuver element.
10-15
MK19. 10-9
marches. 6-15
marking buildings and
rooms. 11-30
medic. 1-20, 6-17g
METT-TC (I). 6-16a, 13-1
mounted patrol’s five
phases. 13-2
movement techniques
bounding overwatch.
6-7c
traveling. 6-7a
traveling overwatch.
6-7b

O
occupation of the
objective rally point.
7-24, 7-35

P
password systems. 7-10
platoon leader. 1-4, 6-17a
platoon sergeant. 1-6,
6-17b

Index-2

R

T

R&S teams. 7-4, 7-28,
7-30 through 7-34,
7-48e and g

team leader. 1-16

radio operator. 1-21

urban operations
civilians. 11-18
obstacles. 11-13
task organization.
11-3
terrain. 11-12
troops and time.
11-16 and 11-17

rally points. 7-15
rappelling. 9-57
extended air traffic
controller. 9-60
rappel seat. 9-37
seat hip. 9-59

U

rope. 9-21
care of. 9-25
cord. 9-24
cordelette. 9-23
inspection of. 9-29
installations. 9-49

vertical lift. 9-14

rope bridges. 9-52

water navigation
terminology. 12-27

rotary-wing aircraft
specifications. 14-22

S
selecting a PZ and LZ
markings. 14-10

V
W
weapons squad leader.
1-15

Z
Z-pulley system. 9-56

selecting a PZ or LZ. 14-7
ground slope. 14-8
squad leader. 1-11, 6-17c

TC 3-21.76

19 September 2025

TC 3-21.76
19 September 2025

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

RANDY A. GEORGE
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

MATTHEW L. SANNITO
Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army
2525844

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve. To be distributed in
accordance with the initial distribution number (IDN) 116076, requirements for TC 3-21.76.

This page intentionally left blank.

This page intentionally left blank.

This page intentionally left blank.

PIN: 201554-000

