*TC 3-21.5

DRILL AND CEREMONIES
MAY 2021

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
*This publication supersedes TC 3-21.5, dated 20 January 2012.

HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

Preface
TC 3-21.5 provides guidance for Army-wide uniformity in the conduct of drill and ceremonies. (Ceremonies
are formations—the arrangement of elements of a unit in a prescribed manner—and movements in
which a number of troops execute movements in unison and with precision just as in drill; however,
their primary value is to render honors, preserve traditions, and stimulate esprit de corps.) It includes
methods of instructing drill (movements by which a unit or individuals are moved in a uniform manner
from one formation to another, or from one place to another, with movements executed in unison and
with precision), teaching techniques, individual and unit drill, manual of arms for Infantry weapons, and
various other aspects of basic drill instruction.
The principal audience for TC 3-21.5 is all members of the profession of arms. Commanders—the Soldiers
in charge—and staffs of Army headquarters serving as joint task force or multinational headquarters should
also refer to applicable joint or multinational doctrine concerning the range of military operations and joint
or multinational forces. Trainers and educators throughout the Army will also use this publication. Since all
situations or eventualities pertaining to drill and ceremonies cannot be foreseen, commanders may find it
necessary to adjust the procedures to local conditions. However, with the view toward maintaining
consistency throughout the Army, the procedures prescribed herein should be followed as closely as possible.
Personnel preparing to give drill instruction must be thoroughly familiar with chapters 3 through 7 before
attempting to teach material in chapters 8 and 9.
For ease in distinguishing a preparatory command from a command of execution, the commands of execution
appear in BOLD CAP letters and preparatory commands appear in Bold Italic letters. Reference to positions
and movements appear in Italics.
AR 670-1 should be used as a reference for the proper wearing of uniforms and insignia.
Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure that their decisions and actions comply with applicable U.S.,
international, and in some cases host-nation laws and regulations. Commanders at all levels ensure that their
Soldiers operate in accordance with the law of war and the rules of engagement. (See FM 6-27.)
TC 3-21.5 uses joint terms where applicable. Selected joint and Army terms and definitions appear in both
the glossary and the text. Terms for which TC 3-21.5 is the proponent publication (the authority) are italicized
in the text and are marked with an asterisk (*) in the glossary. For other definitions shown in the text, the
term is italicized and the number of the proponent publication follows the definition.
TC 3-21.5 applies to the Active Army, Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the United States and
United State Army Reserve unless otherwise stated.
The proponent for this publication is the United States Army Maneuver Center of Excellence. The preparing
agency is the United States Army Maneuver Center of Excellence, Directorate of Training and Doctrine,
Doctrine and Collective Training Division. Send comments and recommendations on DA Form 2028
(Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) to Commander, Maneuver Center of Excellence,
Directorate of Training and Doctrine, Doctrine and Collective Training Division, ATTN: ATZB TDD, 1
Karker Street, Fort Benning, GA 31905 5410; by email to usarmy.benning.mcoe.mbx.doctrine@mail.mil; or
submit an electronic DA Form 2028.

May

TC 3-21.5

ix

This page intentionally left blank.

PART ONE

DRILL
“Gentlemen: you have now reached the last point. If anyone of you doesn’t mean
business let him say so now. An hour from now will be too late to back out. Once in,
you’ve got to see it through. You’ve got to perform without flinching whatever duty is
assigned you, regardless of the difficulty or the danger attending it. If it is garrison duty,
you must attend to it. If it is meeting fever, you must be willing. If it is the closest kind
of fighting, anxious for it. You must know how to ride, how to shoot, how to live in the
open. Absolute obedience to every command is your first lesson. No matter what
comes you mustn’t squeal. Think it over—all of you. If man wishes to withdraw he will
be gladly excused, for others are ready to take his place.”
Theodore Roosevelt, Remarks to Recruits, 1898

Chapter 1

Introduction
The purpose of drill is to enable commanders or noncommissioned officers (NCOs) to
move their unit from one place to another in an orderly manner, to aid in disciplinary
training by instilling habits of precision and response to the leader’s orders, and to
provide for the development of all Soldiers in the practice of commanding troops.

SECTION I – HISTORY
1-1. Military history reveals that armies throughout the world participated in some form of drill. The
primary value of drill, historically, is to prepare troops for battle. For the most part, the drill procedures
practiced are identical to the tactical maneuvers employed on the battlefield. Drill enables commanders to
quickly move their forces from one point to another, mass their forces into a battle formation that affords
maximum firepower, and maneuver those forces as the situation develops.
1-2. In 1775, when this country was striving for independence and existence, the Nation’s leaders were
confronted with the problem of not only establishing a government but also of organizing an Army that was
already engaged in war. From the “shot heard around the world,” on 19 April 1775, until Valley Forge in
1778, Revolutionary forces were little more than a group of civilians fighting Indian-style against
well-trained, highly disciplined British Redcoats. For three years, General George Washington’s troops had
endured many hardships—lack of funds, rations, clothing, and equipment. They had also suffered numerous
losses to the superior British forces. These hardships and losses mostly stemmed from the lack of a military
atmosphere in the country, resulting in the creation of an Army with little or no organization, control,
discipline, or teamwork.
1-3. Recognizing the crisis, General Washington, through Benjamin Franklin, the American ambassador to
France, enlisted the aid of Prussian officer Baron Friedrich von Steuben. Upon his arrival at Valley Forge on
23 February 1778, von Steuben, a former staff officer for Frederick the Great, met an army of several

May

TC 3-21.5

1-1

Chapter 1

thousand wretched, half-starved men in rags. He commented that a European army could not be kept together
in such a state. To correct the conditions that prevailed, he set to work immediately and wrote drill movements
and regulations at night and taught them the following day to a model company of 120 men selected from
the line.
1-4. Discipline became a part of military life for these selected individuals as they learned to respond to
command without hesitation. This new discipline instilled in them a sense of alertness, urgency, and attention
to detail. Their confidence in themselves and their weapon grew as each Soldier perfected the fifteen 1-second
movements required to load and fire their musket. As the Americans mastered the art of drill, they began to
work as a team and to develop pride in themselves and in their units.
1-5. Watching this model company drill, observers were amazed to see how quickly and orderly the troops
could be massed and maneuvered into different battle formations. Officers observed that organization, chain
of command, and control were improved as each Soldier had a specific place and task within the formation.
Later, the members of the model company were distributed throughout the Army to teach drill. Through drill,
they improved the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the Army.
1-6. To ensure continuity and uniformity, von Steuben, by then a major general and the Army Inspector
General, wrote the first Army field manual in 1779, “The Regulations for the Order and Discipline of the
Troops of the United States,” commonly referred to as the Blue Book. The drill procedures initiated at Valley
Forge were not changed for 85 years, until the American Civil War, and many of the drill terms and
procedures are still in effect today.
1-7. Drill commands are about the same as at the time of the War of 1812, except that then the officers and
NCOs began them by saying, “Take care to face to the right, right, face.” Also, during the American
revolutionary period, troops marched at a cadence of 76 steps per minute instead of the current cadence of
120 steps. (Cadence is the uniform rhythm in which a movement is executed, or the number of steps or
counts per minute at which a movement is executed. Drill movements are normally executed at the
cadence of quick time or double-time. Quick time is the cadence of 120 counts or steps per minute;
double-time is the cadence of 180 counts or steps per minute.) Then units performed precise movement
on the battlefield, and the Army that could best perform them was often able to get behind the enemy, or on
their flank, beating them. Speed ruined the winning exactness. Also, firearms shot neither far nor accurately
in 1776, so troop formations could take more time to approach the enemy.
1-8. As armament and weaponry improved, drill had to adapt to new tactical concepts. Although the
procedures taught in drill today are not normally employed on the battlefield, the objectives accomplished
by drill—professionalism, teamwork, confidence, pride, alertness, attention to detail, esprit de corps, and
discipline—are just as important to the modern Army as they were to the Continental Army.

SECTION II – MILITARY MUSIC
1-9. Military music has been an integral part of the military since the U.S. Army was created. Drummers
have provided beats to help with military drill. Bugles have been used on the battlefield to signal various
events. Military musicians have been providing ceremonial music and performing in concerts to boost morale
since the Revolutionary War. Cadence is sung in the morning to motivate and captivate Soldiers during
physical training while keeping the formation in step. There are popular Country and Service songs played
at military functions that tell a story and instill pride in the force such as songs like “Blood on the Risers”
and “Ballad of the Green Beret,” as well as marches like The Stars and Stripes Forever.
1-10. The earliest surviving pictorial, sculptured, and written records show musical or quasi-musical
instruments employed in connection with military activity for signaling during encampments, parades, and
combat. Because the sounds were produced in the open air, the instruments tended to be brass and percussion.
Oriental, Egyptian, Greek, Roman, and American Indian chronicles and pictorial remains show trumpets and
drums of many varieties allied to Soldiers and battles.

NATIONAL AND MILITARY SERVICE MUSIC
1-11. Two of the most distinguished pieces of music in the Army are the national anthem and the official
Army song. These two pieces of military music are played at almost every Army function and require Soldiers

1-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Introduction to Drill and Ceremony

to stand at attention and sing (as required with the playing of the Army song), or stand at attention and
sometimes render the hand salute (as required with the playing of the national anthem). These pieces of
military music were written in turbulent times and have significant meaning to all Soldiers and most
U.S. citizens.

NATIONAL ANTHEM
1-12. Our national anthem officially became “The Star-Spangled Banner” by law on 3 March 1931, in
Section 301, Title 36, U.S Code. The national anthem was written from an inspirational event witnessed by
the songwriter, Francis Scott Key, as the British Royal Navy conducted a 25-hour bombardment on Fort
McHenry. Francis Scott Key observed “Old Glory” still waving at the Fort after the Royal Navy was
unsuccessful in destroying it.

OFFICIAL ARMY SONG
1-13. The official Army song, “The Army Goes Rolling Along,” was formally dedicated by the Secretary of
the Army on Veterans Day, 11 November 1956, and was officially announced on 12 December 1957 (see
AR 220-90). In addition to standing at Attention during the playing of the official Army song, Army personnel
are required to sing the lyrics.
Note. Although there is no Department of Defense (DOD) directive—no oral order given by a
commander to direct or cause a subordinate leader or lead element to take action—in this
regard, commanders, officers, and personnel from other military branches can encourage the
tribute to the Army by standing at Attention when the band plays “The Army Goes Rolling Along.”
Army personnel will stand at Attention during the playing of official songs of other branches of
Service.

BUGLE CALLS
1-14. Bugle calls are used in U.S. military service as the result of the Continental Army’s contact with
European Soldiers and armies during the revolutionary period. After the American Revolution, many of the
French and English bugle calls and drum beats were adopted by the U.S. Army. Bugle calls are musical
signals which announce scheduled and nonscheduled events on Army military bases. Appendix I, (table I-1
on pages I-9 through I-11) gives detailed instruction of courtesies required to be rendered during bugle calls
played on military installations. See TC 1-19.10 for a full list and description of all the Army bugle calls.
There are five classes of bugle calls: warning calls, formation calls, alarm calls, service calls, and ceremonial
calls. Some of the most popular and significant bugle calls are—
 ATTENTION. This is taken from the British “Alarm,” at which call the troops turned out under
arms. Attention is a parade bugle call letting Soldiers know that they are going to be called to the
Position of Attention.
 ADJUTANT’S CALL. The adjutant’s call indicates that the adjutant is about to form the guard,
battalion, or regiment.
 FIRST CALL. First call is the bugle call that signals to the troops as a warning that personnel will
prepare to assemble for a formation. This bugle call lets Soldiers know to move to the designated
formation area.
 REVEILLE. Reveille is the bugle call played to signal the troops to awaken for morning roll call
and coincides with the raising of the national Color.
 MESS CALL. The mess call is the bugle call that signals mealtime.
 RETREAT. Retreat is the ceremony that pays honors to the national flag when it is lowered in the
evening.
 TO THE COLOR. The old Cavalry call, “To the Standard,” in use from about 1835, was replaced
by the present call of “To the Color.” This bugle call is played immediately after the playing of
retreat.

May

TC 3-21.5

1-3

Chapter 1







1-4

TATTOO. Tattoo is a popular bugle call that is played later in the evening prior to “Taps” and
signals to Soldiers that all loud talking and other disturbances must be discontinued within
15 minutes.
“TAPS.” “Taps” is played on some military installations late in the evening as it signals “lights
out” (extinguish all unauthorized lights). “Taps” was adapted by Union General Daniel Butterfield
for his brigade back in July of 1862. “Taps” is also played at military funerals and is known to be
one of the military’s most recognizable and emotional bugle call.
SOUND OFF. Although technically not a bugle call, the “Sound Off” performed by the band in
ceremonies is derived from the tradition of using bugles to signal and rally troops. The band, in
place, plays “Sound Off” (three chords). It then moves forward and, changing direction while
playing a stirring march, troops the line and marches past the Soldiers in formation, then returns
to its post—the correct place for an officer or NCO to stand in a prescribed formation. Upon
halting, the band again plays three chords. Sound Off is a parade bugle call.

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 2

Drill Instructions
“Troops who march in an irregular and disorderly manner are always in great danger
of being defeated.”
Vegetius: De Re Militari: A.D. 378

SECTION I – INSTRUCTIONAL METHODS
The progress made by individuals and units in precise and unified action in drill is determined by the
following:
 The methods of instruction and the thoroughness of the instructor.
 The organization of Soldiers into units of the most effective instructional size.
The three methods of instruction used to teach drill to Soldiers are: step by step, talk-through, and by
the numbers. The character of the movement being taught will indicate the most effective method to use. As
a rule, marching movements are taught using the step-by-step method. Movements that require numerous or
simultaneous actions by an individual or unit are best taught using the talk-through method. Movements that
have two or more counts are taught using the by-the-numbers method.
To ensure that a Soldier develops satisfactory proficiency during the time allotted and to ensure a
complete and consistent presentation by the drill instructor, each movement, regardless of the method used,
should be presented using three teaching stages—
 Explanation.
 Demonstration.
 Practice.

EXPLANATION
In the explanation stage, the instructor must—
 Give the name of the movement.
 Give the practical use for the movement.
 Give the command(s) for the movement and explain its elements: the preparatory command and
the command of execution.
 Also discuss the command(s) necessary to terminate the movement. (Supplementary commands
are discussed where appropriate in the explanations.)
This is how an instructor teaches a marching movement using the first teaching stage (explanation):
“Platoon, ATTENTION. AT EASE. The next movement (position), which I will name, explain, and have
demonstrated, and which you will conduct practical work on, is the 30-Inch Step From the Halt. This
movement is used to march an element from point A to point B in a uniform manner. The command to
execute this movement is Forward, MARCH. This is a two-part command: Forward is the preparatory
command, and MARCH is the command of execution. The command to terminate this movement is HALT.
Halt is also a two-part command when preceded by a preparatory command such as Squad or Platoon. I will
use Demonstrator as the preparatory command and HALT as the command of execution. When given, these
commands are as follows: Forward, MARCH; Demonstrator, HALT.”

May

TC 3-21.5

2-1

Chapter 2

DEMONSTRATION
In the demonstration stage, the instructor may use the step-by-step, talk-through, or by-the-numbers
methods of instruction. The instructor may demonstrate the movement themselves, modifying their position
when necessary to maintain eye-to-eye contact with personnel being instructed.

STEP-BY-STEP METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
In the step-by-step method of instruction, the explanation and demonstration are combined. The
movements are taught one step at a time.
Note. The letters P, I, C, or A that have been added to the end of certain paragraphs to help the
reader understand the five-step process used in all marching movements comprise a mnemonic
known as the PICAA effect. Put simply, the preparatory command, the command of execution,
and the action step—executing the movement—are all given or executed when the same foot
strikes the marching surface. The intermediate step and additional step are executed with the other
foot.
The instructor explains that on the command of execution, the demonstrator takes only one step and
then stops in position until the command Ready, STEP (for the next step) is given. While the demonstrator
is stopped in position, the instructor makes on-the-spot corrections and explains the actions for the next step.
The instructor then has the demonstrator execute the movement at normal cadence.
This is how an instructor teaches the demonstration stage when using the step-by-step method of
instruction:
 “Demonstrator, POST. I will use the step-by-step method of instruction. On the preparatory
command Forward of Forward, MARCH, without noticeable movement, shift the weight of the
body onto the right foot. Forward.”
 “On the command of execution MARCH of Forward, MARCH, step forward 30 inches with the
left foot. The head, eyes, and body remain as in the Position of Attention. The arms swing in
natural motion, without exaggeration and without bending the elbows, about 9 inches straight to
the front and 6 inches straight to the rear of the trouser seams. The fingers and thumbs are curled
as in the Position of Attention, just barely clearing the trousers. MARCH.” (Front is defined as
the space from side to side of a formation, including the right and left elements.)
 “On the command of execution STEP of Ready, STEP, execute a 30-inch step with the trail foot.
Once again, ensure that the head, eyes, and body remain as in the Position of Attention, and that
the arms swing naturally, without exaggeration, and without bending the elbows, about 9 inches
straight to the front and 6 inches straight to the rear of the trouser seams. The fingers and thumbs
are curled, as in the Position of Attention, barely clearing the trousers. Ready, STEP. Notice that
there are two steps explained: one from the Halt and one while marching.”
 “The command to terminate this movement is HALT. The preparatory command Demonstrator
of Demonstrator, HALT, may be given as either foot strikes the marching surface. However, the
command of execution HALT of Demonstrator, HALT, must be given the next time that same
foot strikes the marching surface. The Halt is executed in two counts.”
 “On the command of execution STEP of Ready, STEP, execute a 30-inch step with the trail foot.
When that foot strikes the marching surface, the demonstrator will receive the preparatory
command Demonstrator of Demonstrator, HALT. Ready, STEP. Demonstrator.” (P–step 1 of
the PICAA process.)
 “On the command of execution STEP of Ready, STEP, execute a 30-inch step with the trail foot.
This is the intermediate (or thinking) step required between the preparatory command and the
command of execution. Ready, STEP.” (I–step 2 of the PICAA process.)
 “On the command of execution STEP of Ready, STEP, execute a 30-inch step with the trail foot.
When the foot strikes the marching surface, the demonstrator will receive the command of

2-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Drill Instructions








execution HALT of Demonstrator, HALT. Ready, STEP. HALT. The Halt is executed in two
counts.” (C–step 3 of the PICAA process.)
“On the command of execution STEP of Ready, STEP, execute a 30-inch step with the trail foot,
this being the additional step required after the command of execution. Ready, STEP.” (A–step 4
of the PICAA process.)
“On the command of execution STEP of Ready, STEP, bring the trail foot alongside the lead foot,
reassuming the Position of Attention, thus terminating this movement. (Ready, STEP.
RE-FORM.) At normal cadence, this movement would look as follows: Forward, MARCH.
Demonstrator, HALT. AT EASE.” (A–step 5 of the PICAA process.) (RE-FORM is a
command to restore the previous element or formation [used only during drill instructions].)
“Platoon, what are your questions pertaining to this movement when executed at normal cadence
or when using the step-by-step method of instruction? (Clarify all questions.)”
“Demonstrator, ATTENTION. You will now become my assistant instructor. FALL OUT.”

Note. Notice that when marching, there are five steps in the step-by-step method of instruction:
1–Preparatory command step; 2–Intermediate step; 3–Command of execution step; 4–Additional
step; and 5–Action step.

TALK-THROUGH METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
Demonstrations are combined. Each movement is orally described. In this method, the explanation and
action by individuals is executed as the instructor tells the demonstrators what they want them to do and how
to do it. The demonstrators execute the movement as the instructor describes it; then, the instructor has the
demonstrators execute the movement at normal cadence.
This is how an instructor teaches the demonstration stage when using the talk-through method of
instruction:
 “Demonstrator, POST. I will use the talk-through method of instruction. On the command of
execution ATTENTION or FALL IN, sharply bring the heels together and on line, with the toes
forming a 45-degree angle. Rest the weight of the body equally on the heels and balls of both feet.
The legs are straight without locking the knees; the body is erect; hips level; chest, lifted and
arched; and shoulders, square and even. Keep the head erect and face straight to the front with the
chin drawn in so that the alignment—the arrangement of several elements on the same line—
of the head and neck is vertical. The arms hang straight without stiffness. The fingers are curled
so that the tips of the thumbs are alongside and touching the first joint of the forefingers. Keep the
thumbs straight along the seams of the trousers with the first joint of the fingers touching the
trouser legs. Remain silent and do not move unless otherwise directed.”
 “AT EASE. This position, executed at normal cadence, is as follows: Demonstrator,
ATTENTION. AT EASE. FALL IN. AT EASE.”
 “Platoon, what are your questions pertaining to the Position of Attention when executed at normal
cadence or when executed using the talk-through method of instruction?” (Clarify all questions.)
 “Demonstrator, ATTENTION. You will be my assistant instructor, FALL OUT.”
Note. When teaching squad, platoon, or company drills, this method should be modified so that
individuals are talked into position rather than through the position.

BY-THE-NUMBERS METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
By The Numbers is the command used to begin instructing one count at a time. Without The Numbers
is the command used to terminate single-count instruction and return to normal cadence. The explanation and
demonstration are combined. Movements are explained and demonstrated one count at a time.

May

TC 3-21.5

2-3

Chapter 2

The instructor has the demonstrator execute the movement by-the-numbers (one count at a time). The
instructor then has the demonstrator execute the movement at normal cadence. The following is how an
instructor teaches the demonstration stage using the by-the-numbers method of instruction:
 “Demonstrator, POST. I will use the by-the-numbers method of instruction. Port Arms from
Order Arms is a two-count movement. On the command of execution ARMS of Port, ARMS,
this being count one, grasp the barrel of the rifle with the right hand and raise the rifle diagonally
across the body, ensuring that the right elbow remains down without strain. Simultaneously, grasp
the rifle with the left hand at the handguard just forward of the slip ring, keeping the rifle about
4 inches from the belt. By the numbers, Port, ARMS.”
 “On count two, release the grasp of the rifle with the right hand and regrasp the rifle at the small
of the stock. Keep the rifle held diagonally across the body, about 4 inches from the belt, elbows
drawn in at the sides, and ensure the right forearm is horizontal, thus assuming the position of Port
Arms. Ready, TWO.”
 “Order Arms from Port Arms is a three-count movement. On the command of execution ARMS
of Order, ARMS, this being count one, release the grasp of the rifl with the right hand and move
the right hand up and across the body, approaching the front sight assembly from the right front,
and firmly grasp the barrel without moving the rifle. Ensure the right elbow remains down without
strain. Order, ARMS.”
 “On count two, release the grasp of the rifle with the left hand, and with the right hand lower the
rifle to the right side until it is about 1 inch off the marching surface. At the same time, guide the
rifle into place with the left hand at the flash suppressor, fingers and thumb extended and joined,
palm facing the rear. Ready, TWO.”
 “On count three, sharply move the left hand to the left side as in the Position of Attention and, at
the same time, gently lower the rifle to the marching surface with the right hand, assuming the
position of Order Arms. Ready, THREE.”
 At normal cadence, these commands (movements) are as follows:
 “Without-the-numbers, Port, ARMS. Order, ARMS. AT EASE.”
 “Platoon, what are your questions pertaining to Port Arms from Order Arms and Order Arms
from Port Arms when executed at normal cadence or when executed by-the-numbers?”
(Clarify all questions.)
 “Demonstrator, ATTENTION. You will be my assistant instructor. FALL OUT.” (Notice that
there is no Ready, ONE command.)

PRACTICE
The practice stage is executed in the same manner as the demonstration stage except that the instructor
uses the proper designator for the size of their element. However, the instructor does not have their element
execute the movement at normal cadence until their element has shown a satisfactory degree of proficiency
executing the movement using the selected method of instruction.

SECTION II – INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNIQUES
Basic drill instruction includes U, line, circular, and extended rectangular formations. Basic drill
instruction also includes stationary and moving cadence counts and dedicated instruction to units and
individuals.

FORMATIONS
Instructors could use one of the four formation types when providing instructions to their formation
while conducting drill. In all phases of drill, instruction and practical work can best be presented by using
the U-formation or line formation. As a rule, stationary movements are taught using the U-formation;
marching movements, including squad, platoon, and company drills, are best taught from the line formation.
Instructors also have the option to use the extended rectangular and circular formations. Soldiers should be
taught in the smallest formation possible to ensure individual attention; however, squad drill, whenever

2-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Drill Instructions

possible, should be taught to squad-size units, platoon drill to platoon-size units, and company drill to
company-size units.

U-FORMATION
The U-formation is formed by the instructor commanding Count, OFF. On the command of execution
OFF of Count, OFF, all personnel, except the right flank personnel, turn their heads and eyes to the right
and the right flank personnel count off with “ONE.” After the right flank Soldiers have counted their number,
the Soldiers to their left count off with the next higher number and simultaneously turn their heads and eyes
to the front. All other members of the formation count off in the same manner until the entire formation has
counted off. The instructor then commands First and second squads, FALL OUT.
On the command of execution FALL OUT, the first squad faces to the right, and the second squad
faces to the left. After the squads have faced, the instructor commands U-formation, FALL IN.
On the command of execution FALL IN, the following actions happen simultaneously:
 The first squad faces right, executes a Column Left, and takes one more step than the highest
number counted when the formation counted off; halts, and faces to the left without command.
 The second squad faces left, marches forward until the lead Soldier clears the last vacated position
of the first squad, and then executes a Column Right, taking three more steps than the highest
number counted when the formation counted off; halts, and faces to the right without command.
 The third squad stands fast, and the fourth squad executes one 15-Inch Step to the Left. The
instructor ensures that the first and second squads are one step in front of and one step outside the
flanks of the third squad before commanding AT EASE beginning the instruction.
To re-form the platoon in a line formation, the commands are: FALL OUT (pause); FALL IN. The
members of the platoon execute in the reverse manner as prescribed above, taking the same number of steps.

LINE FORMATION
When instructing using the line formation at normal interval, it is recommended that the first rank
kneels (right knee), second rank executes one 15-Inch Step to the Left and kneels (left knee), third rank stands
fast, and the fourth rank takes one 15-Inch Step to the Left. (Rank is a line that is one element in-depth.)
The instructor adjusts any additional ranks as necessary to ensure they are uncovered. This formation can
quickly be formed by commanding Instructional Formation, MARCH. To re-form the unit into a line
formation, the command is FALL IN. The members of the platoon execute in the reverse manner as
prescribed above. (Normal interval is the lateral space between Soldiers, measured from right to left by
the Soldier on the right holding their left arm shoulder high, fingers and thumb extended and joined,
with the tip of their middle finger touching the right shoulder of the Soldier to their left.)

EXTENDED RECTANGULAR FORMATION
The instructor may find using the extended rectangular formation more suitable for use:
To form the extended rectangular formation, the instructor commands Extend to the left,
MARCH. All right flank Soldiers stand fast with only their left arm extended sideward with palm
down, fingers and thumbs extended and joined. All other Soldiers turn to the left and double-time
forward. After taking a sufficient number of steps, the Soldiers stop, face to the front, and extend
both arms sideward with palms down, with fingers and thumbs extended and joined. The distance
between the fingertips of one Soldier to another is 12 inches, dress is to the right and cover to the
front. The remainder of the body is in the Position of Attention. (Distance is defined as the space
between elements when the elements are one behind the other. Between units, it varies with
the size of the formation; between individuals, it is an arm’s length to the front plus 6 inches,
or about 36 inches, measured from the chest of one Soldier to the back of the Soldier
immediately to their front.
 The instructor then commands Arms downward, MOVE. The Soldiers lower their arms sharply
to the sides as in the Position of Attention.
 The instructor then commands Left, Face. All Soldiers execute a left face.


May

TC 3-21.5

2-5

Chapter 2










The instructor then commands Extend to the left, MARCH. All Soldiers execute as previously
described.
The instructor then commands Arms downward, MOVE. All Soldiers execute as previously
described.
The instructor then commands Right, FACE. All Soldiers execute a right face.
The instructor then commands From front to rear, COUNT OFF. (COUNT OFF is the entire
command of execution.) Each member of the first rank turns their head and eyes to the right and
counts off with ONE, then faces back to the front. The remaining ranks execute in the same
manner as the first rank, counting off in the same manner as the first rank until the entire formation
has counted off. The members of the last (rear) rank do not turn their heads and eyes.
The instructor then commands Even numbers to the left, UNCOVER. All even-numbered
Soldiers jump squarely in the center of the interval, resuming the Position of Attention. The
formation is now prepared for instruction.
To return the formation to the original configuration, the instructor commands Assemble to the
right, MARCH. All Soldiers double-time to their original position in formation.

CIRCULAR FORMATION
The instructor may find the circular formation more suitable for training:
 The instructor positions themselves in front of the lead Soldier in the lead squad, looks over their
right shoulder, and commands Circle formation, FOLLOW ME. The instructor double-times in
a circle large enough for the formation and moves to the center of the circle. The members of the
lead squad follow at an arm’s length plus 6 inches (approximately 40 inches total). The squad
leaders of the following squads begin double-timing at the correct distance from the last Soldier
in the preceding squad without command. After the entire formation is in a circle, the instructor
comes to the Position of Attention and commands Quick time, MARCH. The Soldiers begin
marching normally. The instructor then gives directives to individual Soldiers and corrects the
distance between them until each member is at approximately double arm interval.
 The instructor then commands the formation to Halt using the appropriate preparatory command.
 The instructor then commands Left, FACE. All personnel face toward the instructor. The
formation is now ready for instruction.
 To return the formation to its original configuration, the instructor commands the formation to
attention and commands FALL OUT, then FALL IN. On the command FALL IN, all Soldiers
return to their original position in formation.
Note. When conditions do not warrant this formation, Soldiers may be directed to remain standing
and to uncover. To assemble the unit, the command FALL IN is given.

INSTRUCTORS
When acting as instructors or assistant instructors, officers and NCOs go wherever they are needed.
They correct mistakes and ensure steadiness and proper performance in ranks. When Soldiers shows that they
are unable to execute the proper movements or assume the proper position, the instructor may physically
assist them.

CADENCE COUNTING
To enable Soldiers to learn or maintain cadence and develop rhythm, the instructor should have them
count cadence while marching.
To count cadence while marching at quick time, the instructor gives the preparatory command, Count
Cadence, as the left foot strikes the marching surface, and the command of execution, COUNT, the next
time the left foot strikes the marching surface. The Soldier begins to count the next time the left foot strikes
the marching surface and counts as each foot strikes the marching surface—ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR;

2-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Drill Instructions

ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR. To count cadence while double-timing, the procedures are basically the same,
except the Soldier only counts each time the left foot strikes the marching surface. To maintain cadence when
marching, Soldiers will be allowed to sing, or a drummer’s beat may provide cadence.
For stationary movements of two or more counts, the instructor commands In Cadence, Right, FACE.
Soldiers simultaneously execute the first count of the movement on the command of execution and sounds
off, ONE; as they execute the second count, they sound off, TWO.
Note. To halt execution of movements in cadence, the instructor commands Without Cadence,
and resumes normal drill methods. For example, Without Cadence, MARCH when marching at
Count Cadence or Without Cadence, Left, FACE for stationary movements.
As Soldiers begin to master the art of drill, instructors encourage a spirit of competition among
individuals and between units. Although repetition is necessary when teaching drill, instructors use
competitive drill exercises to ensure that drill does not become boring or monotonous.
Mass commands are used to develop confidence and promote enthusiasm. They are effective in
developing a command voice when instructing a leadership course. Procedures for using mass commands are
discussed in chapter 3.

May

TC 3-21.5

2-7

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 3

Commands and the Command Voice
“The spirit of discipline, as distinct from its outward and visible guises, is the result of
association with martial traditions and their living embodiment.”
B. H. Liddell Hart, Thoughts on War, 1944

SECTION I – COMMANDS
3-1. A drill command is an oral order of a commander or leader. The precision with which a movement is
executed is affected by the way the command is given.

RULES
3-2. The following rules for giving commands apply to the commander when the unit drills as a separate
unit and not as part of a larger formation:
 When at the Halt, the commander faces the troops when giving commands. On commands that set
the unit in motion (marching from one point to another), the commander moves simultaneously
with the unit to maintain correct position within the formation. (See chapter 4, paragraphs 4-7 and
4-27, for more information on facing in marching.)
 When the commander is marching, without regard to the formation, the commander turns their
head in the direction of the troops to give commands.
 Exceptions to these rules occur during ceremonies, which are discussed in chapter 10.
 When elements drill as part of a larger unit, the rules for supplementary commands apply (see
paragraph 3-6).
 The commander gives the command AS YOU WERE to revoke a preparatory command that they
have given. The command AS YOU WERE must be given before the command of execution.
The commander cannot cancel the command of execution with AS YOU WERE. If an improper
command is not revoked, the personnel execute the movement in the best manner possible.

TWO-PART COMMANDS
3-3. Most drill commands have two parts: the preparatory command and the command of execution. Neither
part is a command by itself, but the parts are termed commands to simplify instruction. The commands Ready,
Port, ARMS, and Ready, Aim, FIRE, are considered two-part commands even though they contain two
preparatory commands. The following are the parts of the two-part commands:
 Preparatory command. The preparatory command states the movement to be carried out and
mentally prepares the Soldier for its execution. In the command Forward, MARCH, the
preparatory command is Forward.
 Command of execution. The command of execution tells when the movement is to be carried out.
In Forward, MARCH, the command of execution is MARCH.
3-4. To change direction of a unit when marching, the preparatory command and command of execution
for each movement are given so they begin and end on the foot in the direction of the turn: Right Flank,
MARCH is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface, and Left Flank, MARCH as the left foot
strikes the marching surface. The interval between the preparatory command and the command of execution
is always one step or count. The preparatory command and command of execution are always given when
the same foot strikes the marching surface.

May

TC 3-21.5

3-1

Chapter 3

COMBINED COMMANDS
3-5. In some commands, the preparatory command and the command of execution are combined; for
example, FALL IN, AT EASE, and REST. These commands are given without inflection and at a uniformly
high pitch and loudness comparable to that for a normal command of execution.

SUPPLEMENTARY COMMANDS
3-6. Supplementary commands are verbal orders, given by a subordinate leader, that reinforce and
complement a commander’s order. They ensure proper understanding and execution of a movement. They
extend to the lowest subordinate leader exercising control over an element affected by the command as a
separate element within the same formation.
3-7. A supplementary command may be a preparatory command, a portion of a preparatory command, or a
two-part command. It is normally given between the preparatory command and the command of execution.
However, when a command requires an element of a unit to execute a movement different from other
elements within the same formation, or the same movement at a different time, subordinate leaders give their
supplementary commands at the time prescribed by the procedures covering that particular movement.

Example:
The platoon is in column formation, and the platoon leader commands Column of
Twos From the Left (pause), MARCH. The first and second squad leaders command
Forward; the third and fourth squad leaders command STAND FAST. On the
command of execution MARCH, the first and second squads march forward. At the
appropriate time, the squad leader (third squad) nearest the moving element
commands Column Half Left, MARCH (for both remaining squads). As the third and
fourth squad leaders reach the line of march, they automatically execute a Column
Half Left and obtain normal distance behind the first and second squads.
3-8. Subordinate leaders give all supplementary commands over their right shoulder except when their
command is based on the actions of an element on their left or when the subordinate is to execute a Column
Left (Half Left) or Left Flank. Giving commands over the left shoulder occurs when changing configuration
or a formation, such as forming a file (column that has a front of one element) or a column of fours and
re-forming. (See chapter 7, paragraph 7-13, for more information on forming a file and re-forming.)

Example:
The platoon is in column formation and is going to form a file to the left. The left flank
squad leader will give the supplementary command Column, LEFT over the left
shoulder, since the movement will be to the left. The other squad leaders will give the
supplementary command STAND FAST over the left shoulder as their movement will
be to the left and is based on an element to the left.

Note. When in formation at present arms and the preparatory command Order of Order, ARMS
is given, subordinate leaders terminate their salute before giving their supplementary command.
3-9. Supplementary commands are not given by a subordinate leader for the combined commands FALL
IN, AT EASE, REST or for mass drill when their element forms as part of a massed formation. However,
supplementary commands are given when forming a mass or when forming a column from a mass.
3-10. Except for commands while in mass formation, platoon leaders give supplementary commands
following all preparatory commands of the commander. When the preparatory command is Company, the

3-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Commands and the Command Voice

platoon leaders immediately come to Attention and command Platoon. The company commander allows for
all supplementary commands before giving the command of execution.
3-11. When no direction is given, the response is understood to be Forward; when no rate of march is given,
the response is Quick Time. Normally, when a direction or rate of march is included in the preparatory
command, only the direction or rate of march is given as a supplementary command.

DIRECTIVES
3-12. Directives are oral orders given by the commander that direct or cause a subordinate leader to act. The
commander gives directives rather than commands when it is more appropriate for subordinate elements to
execute a movement or perform a task as independent elements of the same formation:
 TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR UNITS is the only directive on which a commander relinquishes
their command and on which salutes are exchanged.
 Directives are given in sentence form and are normally prefaced by the terms HAVE YOUR
UNITS or BRING YOUR UNITS.

Example:
HAVE YOUR UNITS Open Ranks and Stack Arms; BRING YOUR UNITS to Present
Arms.

SECTION II – THE COMMAND VOICE
3-13. A correctly delivered command will be understood by everyone in the unit. Correct commands have a
tone, cadence, and snap that demand willing, correct, and immediate response.

VOICE CONTROL
3-14. The loudness of a command is adjusted to the number of Soldiers in the unit. Normally, the commander
is to the front and center of the unit and speaks facing the unit so that their voice reaches everyone. The voice
must have carrying power, but excessive exertion is unnecessary and harmful. A typical result of trying too
hard is the almost unconscious tightening of the neck muscles to force sound out. This produces strain,
hoarseness, sore throat, and worst of all, indistinct and jumbled sounds instead of clear commands. Ease of
giving proper commands is achieved through good posture, proper breathing, correct adjustment of throat
and mouth muscles, and confidence.
3-15. The best posture for giving commands is the Position of Attention. Soldiers in formation notice the
posture of their leader: if the leaders’ posture is unmilitary—relaxed, slouched, stiff, or uneasy—the
subordinates will imitate it.
3-16. The most important muscle used in breathing is the diaphragm—the large muscle that separates the
chest cavity from the abdominal cavity. The diaphragm automatically controls normal breathing and is used
to control the breath in giving commands. The throat, mouth, and nose act as amplifiers and help to give
fullness (resonance) and projection to the voice.

DISTINCTIVENESS
3-17. Distinctiveness depends on the correct use of the tongue, lips, and teeth, which form the separate
sounds of a word and group the sounds into syllables. Distinct commands are effective; indistinct commands
cause confusion. All commands can be pronounced correctly without loss of effect. Emphasize correct
enunciation (distinctiveness). To enunciate clearly, make full use of the lips, tongue, and lower jaw.
3-18. To develop the ability to give clear, distinct commands, practice giving commands slowly and
carefully, prolonging the syllables. Then, gradually increase the rate of delivery to develop proper cadence,
still enunciating each syllable distinctly.

May

TC 3-21.5

3-3

Chapter 3

INFLECTION
3-19. Inflection is the rise and fall in pitch and the tone changes of the voice. Inflection is going to change
when giving preparatory command, command of execution, and combined commands.
3-20. The preparatory command is the command that indicates movement. Pronounce each preparatory
command with a rising inflection. The most desirable pitch when beginning a preparatory command is near
the level of the natural speaking voice. A common fault made by beginners is to start the preparatory
command in a pitch so high that, after employing a rising inflection for the preparatory command, it is
impossible to give the command of execution with clarity and without strain. A good rule to remember: begin
a command near the natural pitch of the voice (see figure 3-1).
3-21. The command of execution is the command that indicates when a movement is to be executed. Give it
in a sharper tone and in a slightly higher pitch than the last syllable of the preparatory command. It must be
given with plenty of snap. The best way to develop a command voice is to practice.
3-22. In combined commands, such as FALL IN and FALL OUT, the preparatory command and command
of execution are combined. Give these commands without inflection and with the uniform high pitch and
loudness of a normal command of execution.

Figure 3-1. Diagram of a command

CADENCE
3-23. Cadence, in commands, means a uniform and rhythmic flow of words. The interval between commands
is uniform in length for any given troop unit. This is necessary so that everyone in the unit can understand
the preparatory command and will know when to expect the command of execution.
3-24. For the squad or platoon in March, except when supplementary commands need to be given, the
interval of time is that which allows one step (or count) between the preparatory command and the command
of execution. The same interval is used for commands given at the Halt. Longer commands, such as
Right flank, MARCH, must be started so that the preparatory command will end on the proper foot, and
leave a full count between the preparatory command and command of execution.

3-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Commands and the Command Voice

3-25. When supplementary commands are necessary, the commander should allow for one count between
the preparatory command and the subordinate leader’s supplementary command, and an additional count
after the subordinate command but before the command of execution.

May

TC 3-21.5

3-5

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 4

Individual Drill
“Maintain discipline and caution above all things, and be on the alert to obey the
word of command. It is both the noblest and the safest thing for a great army to be
visibly animated by one spirit.”
Archidamus of Sparta: To the Lacedaemonian expeditionary force
departing for Athens, 431 B.C.
Note. The explanation of a movement that may be executed toward either flank is given in this
chapter for only one flank. To execute the movement toward the opposite flank, substitute left for
right or right for left in the explanation.

SECTION I – STATIONARY MOVEMENTS
4-1. This section contains most of the individual positions and stationary movements required in drill. These
positions and the correct execution of the movement, in every detail, should be learned before proceeding to
other drill movements.
4-2. Movements are initiated from the Position of Attention. However, some rest movements may be
executed from other rest positions.

POSITION OF ATTENTION
4-3. Two commands can be used to put personnel at the Position of Attention:
 FALL IN is used to assemble a formation or return it to its original configuration.
 The two-part command for Attention is used for Soldiers at a rest position. Assume the Position
of Attention on the command FALL IN or the command Squad (Platoon), ATTENTION.
4-4. To assume this position, bring the heels together sharply on line, with the toes pointing out equally,
forming a 45-degree angle. Rest the weight of the body evenly on the heels and balls of both feet. Keep the
legs straight without locking the knees. Hold the body erect with the hips level, chest lifted and arched, and
shoulders square. Keep the head erect and face straight to the front with the chin drawn in so alignment of
the head and neck is vertical.
4-5. Let the arms hang straight without stiffness. Curl the fingers so that the tips of the thumbs are alongside
and touching the first joint of the forefingers. Keep the thumbs straight along the seams of the trouser leg
with the first joint of the fingers touching the trousers (see figure 4-1 on page 4-2). Remain silent and do not
move unless otherwise directed.
Note. This position is assumed by enlisted Soldiers when addressing officers, or when officers are
addressing officers of superior rank.

May

TC 3-21.5

4-1

Chapter 4

Figure 4-1. Position of attention

REST POSITIONS AT THE HALT
4-6. Any of the positions of rest may be commanded and executed from the Position of Attention. The
following are rest positions that could be given at the halt:
 Parade Rest. Parade Rest is commanded only from the Position of Attention. The command for
this movement is Parade, REST.
 On the command of execution REST, move the left foot about 10 inches to the left of the
right foot. Keep the legs straight without locking the knees, resting the weight of the body
equally on the heels and balls of the feet.
 Simultaneously, place the hands at the small of the back and centered on the belt. Keep the
fingers of both hands extended and joined, interlocking the thumbs so that the palm of the
right hand is outward (see figure 4-2).

4-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill



Keep the head and eyes as in the Position of Attention. Remain silent and do not move unless
otherwise directed. Stand at Ease, At Ease, and Rest may be executed from this position.

Note. Enlisted Soldiers assume this position when addressing all NCOs or when NCOs address
NCOs of superior rank.

Figure 4-2. Parade rest






May

Stand At Ease. The command for this movement is Stand at, EASE. On the command of execution
EASE, execute Parade Rest, but turn the head and eyes directly toward the person in charge of
the formation. At Ease or Rest may be executed from this position.
At Ease. The command for this movement is AT EASE. On the command AT EASE, Soldiers
may move; however, they must remain standing and silent with their right foot in place. Soldiers
may relax their arms with the thumbs interlaced. Rest may be executed from this position.
Rest. The command for this movement is REST. On the command REST, Soldiers may move,
talk, or drink unless otherwise directed. They must remain standing with their right foot in place.

TC 3-21.5

4-3

Chapter 4

AT EASE may be executed from this position to allow Soldiers to secure canteens, other
equipment, and so forth.
Note. On the preparatory command for Attention, immediately assume Parade Rest when at the
position of Stand at Ease, At Ease, or Rest. If, for some reason, a subordinate element is already
at attention, the members of the element remain so and do not execute parade rest on the
preparatory command, nor does the subordinate leader give a supplementary command.

FACING AT THE HALT
4-7. There are five facing movements executed from the Position of Attention. They are Left (Right),
FACE, Half Left (Half Right), FACE, and About, FACE.
Note. Half Left (Half Right), FACE should only be used in situations when a 90-degree facing
movement would not face an element in the desired direction (for example, for a stationary
element to face the direction of the flag to render honors [reveille or retreat]).

FACING TO THE FLANK
4-8. Facing to the Flank is a two-count movement. The command is Left (Right), FACE:
 On the command of execution FACE, slightly raise the right heel and left toe, and turn 90 degrees
to the left on the left heel, assisted by a slight pressure on the ball of the right foot. Keep the left
leg straight without stiffness and allow the right leg to bend naturally.
 On count two, place the right foot beside the left foot, resuming the Position of Attention. Arms
remain at the sides, as in the Position of Attention, throughout this movement (see figure 4-3).

4-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill

Figure 4-3. Left face

FACING TO THE REAR
4-9. Facing to the Rear is a two-count movement. The command is About, FACE:
 On the command of execution FACE (count one), move the toe of the right foot to a point touching
the marching surface about half the length of the foot to the rear and slightly to the left of the left
heel. Rest most of the weight of the body on the heel of the left foot and allow the right knee to
bend naturally.
 On count two, turn to the right 180 degrees on the left heel and ball of the right foot, resuming the
Position of Attention. Arms remain at the sides, as in the Position of Attention, throughout this
movement (see figure 4-4 on page 4-6).

May

TC 3-21.5

4-5

Chapter 4

Figure 4-4. About face
Note. Throughout these movements, the remainder of the body remains in the Position of
Attention.

4-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill

HAND SALUTE
4-10. The Hand Salute is a one-count movement. The command is Present, ARMS. The Hand Salute may
be executed while marching. When marching, only the Soldier in charge of the formation salutes and
acknowledges salutes. When double-timing, an individual Soldier must come to Quick Time before saluting.
4-11. When wearing headgear with a visor (with or without glasses), on the command of execution ARMS,
raise the right hand sharply, fingers and thumb extended and joined, palm facing down, and place the tip of
the right forefinger on the rim of the visor slightly to the right of the right eye. The outer edge of the hand is
barely canted downward so that neither the back of the hand nor the palm is clearly visible from the front.
The hand and wrist are straight, the elbow inclined slightly forward, and the upper arm horizontal (see
figure 4-5, box 1).
4-12. When wearing headgear without a visor (or uncovered) and wearing glasses, execute the Hand Salute
in the same manner as previously described in paragraph 4-11, except touch the tip of the right forefinger to
that point on the glasses where the temple piece of the frame meets the right edge of the right brow (see
figure 4-5, box 2).
4-13. When wearing headgear without a visor (or uncovered) and not wearing glasses, execute the Hand
Salute in the same manner as previously described in paragraph 4-10, except touch the tip of the right
forefinger to the forehead near and slightly to the right of the right eyebrow (see figure 4-5, box 3).
4-14. Order Arms from the Hand Salute is a one-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, return the hand sharply to the side, resuming the Position of Attention.
4-15. When reporting or rendering courtesy to an individual, turn the head and eyes toward the person
addressed and simultaneously salute. In this situation, the actions are executed without command. The Salute
is initiated by the subordinate at the appropriate time (six paces) and terminated upon acknowledgment. (See
appendix A for more information on saluting.)

Figure 4-5. Hand salute

May

TC 3-21.5

4-7

Chapter 4

SECTION II – STEPS AND MARCHING
4-16. This section contains all the steps in marching of the individual Soldier. These steps should be learned
thoroughly before proceeding to unit drill.

BASIC MARCHING INFORMATION
4-17. This basic marching information pertains to all marching movements:
 All marching movements executed from the Halt are initiated from the Position of Attention.
 Except for Route Step March and At Ease March, all marching movements are executed while
marching at Attention. Marching at Attention is the combination of the Position of Attention and
the procedures for the prescribed step executed simultaneously.
 When executed from the Halt, all steps except Right Step begin with the left foot.
 For short-distance marching movements, the commander may designate the number of steps
forward, backward, or sideward by giving the appropriate command: One step to the right (left),
MARCH; or Two steps backward (forward), MARCH. On the command of execution MARCH,
step off with the appropriate foot, and halt automatically after completing the number of steps
designated. Unless otherwise specified, when directed to execute steps forward, the steps will be
30-inch steps.
 All marching movements are executed in the cadence of Quick Time (120 steps per minute) except
for the 30-inch step, which may be executed in the cadence of 180 steps per minute on the
command Double Time, MARCH.
 A step is the prescribed distance from one heel to the other heel of a marching Soldier.
 All 15-inch steps are executed for a short distance only.

THE 30-INCH STEP
4-18. To march with a 30-inch step from the Halt, the command is Forward, MARCH:
 On the preparatory command Forward, shift the weight of the body to the right foot without
noticeable movement. On the command of execution MARCH, step forward 30 inches with the
left foot and continue marching with 30-inch steps, keeping the head and eyes fixed to the front.
The arms swing in a natural motion, without exaggeration and without bending at the elbows,
approximately 9 inches straight to the front and 6 inches straight to the rear of the trouser seams.
Keep the fingers curled as in the Position of Attention so that the fingers just clear the trousers.
 To Halt while marching, the command Squad (Platoon), HALT is given. The preparatory
command Squad (Platoon) is given as either foot strikes the marching surface as long as the
command of execution HALT is given the next time that same foot strikes the marching surface.
The Halt is executed in two counts. After HALT is commanded, execute the additional step
required after the command of execution and then bring the trail foot alongside the lead foot,
assuming the Position of Attention and terminating the movement.

CHANGE STEP
4-19. This movement is executed automatically whenever Soldiers finds themselves out of step with all other
members of the formation. It is only executed while marching forward with a 30-inch step. To change step,
the command Change Step, MARCH is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface. On the command
of execution MARCH, take one more step with the left foot, then, in one count, place the right toe near the
heel of the left foot and step off again with the left foot. Swing arms naturally.

MARCHING TO THE REAR
4-20. This movement is used to change the direction of a marching element 180 degrees in a uniform manner.
It is only executed while marching forward with a 30-inch step. To March to the Rear, the command Rear,
MARCH is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH,

4-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill

take one more step with the left foot, pivot 180 degrees to the right on the balls of both feet, and step off in
the new direction taking a 30-inch step with the trail foot. Do not allow the arms to swing outward while
turning.

REST MOVEMENT, 30-INCH STEP
4-21. Rest movements with the 30-inch step include At Ease March and Route Step March:
 At Ease March. The command At Ease, MARCH is given as either foot strikes the marching
surface. On the command of execution MARCH, the Soldier is no longer required to retain
cadence; however, silence and the approximate interval and distance are maintained. Quick Time,
MARCH and Route Step, MARCH are the only commands that can be given while marching at
ease.
 Route Step March. Route Step March is executed identically to At Ease March except that Soldiers
may drink from their canteens and talk.
Note. To change the direction of march while marching at Route Step or At Ease March, the
commander informally directs the lead element to turn in the desired direction. Before precision
movements may be executed, the unit must resume marching in cadence. The troops automatically
resume marching at Attention on the command Quick Time, MARCH as the commander
reestablishes the cadence by counting eight steps. If necessary, Soldiers individually execute
change step to get back in step with the unit.

THE 15-INCH STEP, FORWARD OR HALF STEP
4-22. Use the following procedures to execute the 15-inch step, forward or half step. The 15-inch step is
commonly known as the Half Step:
 To march with a 15-inch step from the Halt, the command is Half step, MARCH. On the
preparatory command Half Step, shift the weight of the body to the right foot without noticeable
movement. On the command of execution MARCH, step forward 15 inches with the left foot and
continue marching with 15-inch steps. The arms swing as in marching with a 30-inch step.
 To alter the march to a 15-inch step while marching with a 30-inch step, the command is Half
Step, MARCH. This command may be given as either foot strikes the marching surface. On the
command of execution MARCH, take one more 30-inch step and then begin marching with a
15-inch step. The arms swing as in marching with a 30-inch step.
 To resume marching with a 30-inch step, the command Forward, MARCH is given as either foot
strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, take one more 15-inch step
and then begin marching with a 30-inch step.
 The Halt while marching at the Half Step is executed in two counts, the same as the Halt from
the 30-inch step. While marching at the Half Step, the only commands that may be given are:
Mark Time, MARCH; Normal Interval, Forward, MARCH; MARCH; and HALT.

MARCHING IN PLACE
4-23. To march in place, use the following procedures:
 To march in place, the command Mark Time, MARCH is given as either foot strikes the marching
surface and only while marching with a 30-inch or 15-inch step forward. On the command of
execution MARCH, take one more step, bring the trailing foot alongside the leading foot, and
begin to march in place. Raise each foot alternately 2 inches off the marching surface; the arms
swing naturally, as when marching with a 30-inch step forward.
Note. While marking time in formation, the Soldier adjusts position to ensure proper alignment
and cover. The proper distance between Soldiers while marching is one-arm length plus 6 inches
(approximately 40 inches).

May

TC 3-21.5

4-9

Chapter 4





To resume marching with a 30-inch step, the command Forward, MARCH is given as either foot
strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, take one more step in place
and then step off with a 30-inch step.
The Halt from Mark Time is executed in two counts, the same as the Halt from the 30-inch step.

THE 15-INCH STEP, RIGHT OR LEFT
4-24. To march with a 15-Inch Step Right (Left), use the following procedures:
 To march with a 15-Inch Step Right (Left), the command is Right (Left) Step, MARCH. The
command is given only while at the Halt. On the preparatory command of Right (Left) Step, shift
the weight of the body without noticeable movement onto the left (right) foot. On the command
of execution MARCH, bend the right knee slightly and raise the right foot only high enough to
allow freedom of movement. Place the right foot 15 inches to the right of the left foot, then move
the left foot (keeping the left leg straight) alongside the right foot as in the Position of Attention.
Continue this movement, keeping the arms at the sides as in the Position of Attention.
 To Halt when executing Right or Left Step, the command is Squad (Platoon), HALT. This
movement is executed in two counts. The preparatory command is given when the heels are
together; the command of execution HALT is given the next time the heels are together. On the
command of execution HALT, take one more step with the lead foot and then place the trailing
foot alongside the lead foot, resuming the Position of Attention.

THE 15-INCH STEP, BACKWARD
4-25. To march backward using the 15-inch step, use the following procedures:
 To march with a 15-Inch Step Backward, the command is Backward, MARCH. The command is
given only while at the Halt. On the preparatory command Backward, shift the weight of the body
without noticeable movement onto the right foot. On the command of execution MARCH, take a
15-inch step backward with the left foot and continue marching backward with 15-inch steps. The
arms swing naturally.
 The Halt from Backward March is executed in two counts, the same as the Halt from the 30-inch
step.

THE 30-INCH STEP, DOUBLE-TIME
4-26. To Double-Time using the 30-inch step, use the following procedures:
 To march in the cadence of 180 steps per minute with a 30-inch step, the command is Double
Time, MARCH. It may be commanded while at the Halt or while marching at Quick Time with a
30-inch step.
 When at the Halt and the preparatory command Double Time is given, shift the weight of the body
to the right foot without noticeable movement. On the command of execution MARCH, raise the
forearms to a horizontal position, with the fingers and thumbs closed, knuckles out, and
simultaneously step off with the left foot. Continue to march with 30-inch steps at the cadence of
Double Time. The arms swing naturally to the front and rear with the forearms kept horizontal.
(When armed, Soldiers will come to Port Arms on receiving the preparatory command of Double
Time.) Guides, when at Sling Arms, will Double-Time with their weapons at Sling Arms upon
receiving the directive GUIDE ON LINE.
 When marching with a 30-inch step in the cadence of Quick Time, the command Double Time,
MARCH is given as either foot strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution
MARCH, take one more 30-inch step at Quick Time and step off with the trailing foot,
double-timing as previously described.
 To resume marching with a 30-inch step at Quick Time, the command Quick time, MARCH is
given as either foot strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, take
two more 30-inch steps at double-time, lower the arms to the sides, and resume marching with a
30-inch step at Quick Time.

4-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill

Note. Quick Time, Column Half Left (Right), and Column Left (Right) are the only movements
that can be executed while double-timing. Armed troops must be at Port Arms before the command
Double Time, MARCH is given.

FACING IN MARCHING
4-27. Facings in Marching from the Halt are important parts of the following movements: alignments,
column movements, inspecting Soldiers in ranks, and changing from Normal Interval to Double Interval or
Double Interval to Normal Interval. (Double interval is defined as the lateral space between Soldiers,
measured from right to left by raising both arms shoulder high with the fingers extended and joined
[palms down] so that fingertips are touching the fingertips of the Soldiers to the right and to the left.):
 For instructional purposes only, the command Face to the Right (Left) in Marching, MARCH
may be used to teach the individual to execute the movement properly. On the preparatory
command Face to the Right (Left) in Marching, shift the weight of the body without noticeable
movement onto the right foot. On the command of execution MARCH, pivot to the right (left) on
the ball of the right foot (90 degrees) and step off in the indicated direction with the left foot.
Execute the pivot and step in one count and continue marching in the new direction. (See
paragraph 4-17, third bullet, and chapter 3, paragraph 3-2, first bullet.)
 Facing to the Half-Right (Half-Left) in Marching from the Halt is executed in the same manner as
Facing to the Right (Left) in Marching from a Halt, except the facing movement is made at a
45-degree angle to the right (left).
 The Halt from Facing in Marching is executed in two counts, the same as the Halt from the
30-inch step.

May

TC 3-21.5

4-11

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 5

Individual Drill with Weapons
“Feed ‘em up and give ‘em hell. Teach ‘em where they are. Make ‘em so mad they’ll
eat steel rather than get dressing from you. Make ‘em hard but don’t break ‘em.”

Laurence Stallings: What Price Glory? 1926
Note. For individual movements with weapons other than the M4-series carbine, see the following
appendixes:
•
•
•
•

M16-series rifle—appendix B.
M14 rifle—appendix C.
M1903 or M1917—appendix D.
Sword and saber—appendix E.

SECTION I – MANUAL OF ARMS—M4-SERIES CARBINE
5-1. This section contains procedures for executing the manual of arms with the M4-series carbine (see
figure 5-1 on page 5-2) in conjunction with individual and unit drill movements. Only conduct drills with the
M4-series carbine with the standard handguards with the stock fully extended.
Note. The manual of arms movements for the M16-series, M14, M1903 or M1917 rifle are
basically the same as for the M4 carbine. The movements for the M16 are fully described in
appendix B; the movements for the M14 are fully described in appendix C; the movements for the
M1903or M1917 are fully described in appendix D.

May

TC 3-21.5

5-1

Chapter 5

Figure 5-1. Nomenclature, M4-series carbine

BASIC PROCEDURES
5-2. The following are basic procedures that apply to the M4-series carbine:
 At the Halt, all movements are initiated from Order Arms or Sling Arms, which are the Positions
of Attention with the carbine.
 All precision movements are executed in quick-time cadence.
 For drill purposes, the magazine is not carried in the carbine. When performing duty requiring the
use of the magazine, the carbine is carried at Sling Arms.
 The command Port, ARMS must be given before the command for Double Time.
 Facings, alignments, and short-distance marching movements are executed from Order Arms or
Sling Arms. When the movement has been completed, automatically return the carbine to
Order Arms.

5-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons









Facing movements are executed from Order Arms or Sling Arms. When a Facing is necessary to
establish the direction of march, the Facing movement is executed before the command for the
manual of arms. After a marching movement has been completed, Order, ARMS or Sling, ARMS
is commanded before the command for the facing movement.
Ready, Port, ARMS must be commanded following Inspection Arms and before any other
movements can be commanded.
Port Arms is the key position assumed in most manual of arms movements from one position to
another except Right Shoulder Arms from Order Arms and Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms.
Manual of arms movements are a combination of the Position of Attention and the procedures for
the prescribed movement. Most manual of arms movements are executed with the head, eyes, and
body as in the Position of Attention.
Sling Arms is the appropriate position assumed to carry the carbine while marching in most
situations. Port Arms is only used when slings are unavailable or unless specifically required by
local conditions.

Note. Paragraphs 5-2 through 5-9 refer to slings tight. However, all individual and unit drill
movements may be executed with slings loose except when executing Fix Bayonets and Unfix
Bayonets.

ORDER ARMS
5-3. Order Arms is the Position of Attention with a carbine or rifle. To execute Order Arms, use the
following procedures:
 Assume Order Arms on the command FALL IN or from Parade Rest on the command of
execution ATTENTION (see figure 5-2 on page 5-4).
 At Order Arms, maintain the Position of Attention. Grasp the weapon by cupping the butt of the
carbine with the right hand, fingers joined with the thumb on the toe of the butt. Hold the carbine
vertical with the magazine well to the front with the trailing edge of the right hand on line with
the seam of the trousers.

May

TC 3-21.5

5-3

Chapter 5

Figure 5-2. Order Arms and Parade Rest

REST POSITION
5-4. The Rest Positions are commanded and executed the same as individual drill with the following
additions:
 On the command of execution REST of Parade, REST, execute the movement as an individual
drill without moving the right hand or the carbine.
 Execute Stand at Ease in the same manner as Parade Rest except turn the head and eyes toward
the person in charge of the formation.
 On the command AT EASE or REST, keep the carbine in place as in Parade Rest.

5-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons

PORT ARMS
5-5. To execute Port Arms (see figure 5-3) use the following procedures:
 Port Arms from Order Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Port, ARMS.
 On the command of execution ARMS (count one), reach across the body with the left hand and
grasp the handguards just above the slip ring.
 On count two, release the grasp of the right hand and raise the carbine diagonally across the body
so that the carbine is about 4 inches from the waist. At the same time, grasp the small of the stock
with the right hand.
 Hold the carbine diagonally across the body about 4 inches from the waist, right forearm
horizontal, and the elbows close to the sides.

Figure 5-3. Port Arms from Order Arms
5-6. To execute Order Arms from Port Arms (see figure 5-4 on page 5-6), use the following procedures:
 Order Arms from Port Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS.

May

TC 3-21.5

5-5

Chapter 5





On the command of execution ARMS (count one), release the grasp of the right hand and move
the carbine to the side as in Order Arms with the carbine. At the same time, move the right hand
to the side and then regrasp the butt of the carbine as in Order Arms.
On count two, release the grasp of the left hand and return it sharply to the side and in the Position
of Attention.

Figure 5-4. Order Arms from Port Arms

PRESENT ARMS
5-7. To Present Arms from Order Arms (see figure 5-5), use the following procedures:
 Present Arms is a three-count movement. The command is Present, ARMS.
 On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts.
 On count three, twist the carbine with the right hand so that the carbine is vertical and centered on
the body about 4 inches from the waist with the magazine well to the front. Lower the carbine
until the left forearm is horizontal and keep the elbows tight against the sides.

5-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons

Figure 5-5. Present Arms
5-8. Orders Arms from Present Arms is a three-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, twist the carbine back to the Port Arms position. Counts two and three are
executed the same as from Port Arms.

INSPECTION ARMS
5-9. To execute Inspection Arms (see figure 5-6 on page 5-8), use the following procedures:
 Inspection Arms from Order Arms is a seven-count movement. The command is Inspection,
ARMS.
 On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in the first two counts.
 On count three, move the left hand from the handguard and grasp the pistol grip, thumb over
the lower portion of the bolt catch.
 On count four, release the grasp of the right hand, unlock the charging handle with the thumb,
and sharply pull the charging handle to the rear with the thumb and forefinger. At the same
time, apply pressure on the lower portion of the bolt catch, locking the bolt to the rear.
 On count five, without changing the grasp of the right hand, sharply push the charging handle
forward until it is locked into position; then regrasp the carbine with the right hand at the
small of the stock.
 On count six, remove the left hand, twist the carbine with the right hand so that the ejection
port is skyward, regrasp the handguard with the left hand just forward of the slip ring, and
visually inspect the receiver through the ejection port.

May

TC 3-21.5

5-7

Chapter 5



On count seven, with the right hand, twist the carbine so that the sights are up and assume
Inspection Arms.

Figure 5-6. Inspection Arms
Note. The method for inspecting the carbine by an inspecting officer is explained in chapter 8.


5-8

Ready, Port, ARMS is the only command given from Inspection Arms:
 On the command Ready, move the left hand and regrasp the carbine with the thumb and
fingers forming a “U” at the magazine well and trigger guard, the thumb (without pressure)
on the upper part of the bolt catch, fingertips placed below or under the ejection port cover.
 On the command Port, press the bolt catch and allow the bolt to go forward. With the
fingertips, push upward and close the ejection port cover. Grasp the pistol grip with the left
hand and place the left thumb on the trigger.
 On the command ARMS, pull the trigger and resume Port Arms. To return to Order Arms the
command is Order, Arms.

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons

RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS
5-10. To execute Right Shoulder Arms (see figure 5-7), use the following procedures:
 Right Shoulder Arms from Order Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, execute count one the same as in Port Arms.
 On count two, execute the same as Port Arms except move the right hand to grasp the butt of
the carbine with the heel of the butt between the first two fingers with the thumb and forefinger
touching.
 On count three (without moving the head), release the grasp of the left hand (without changing
the grasp of the right hand), twist the carbine so that the sights are up, and place the weapon
onto the right shoulder, moving the left hand to the small of the stock to guide the carbine to
the shoulder. Keep the fingers and thumb (left hand) extended and joined with the palm turned
toward the body. The first joint of the left forefinger touches the rear of the charging handle.
Keep the left elbow down, and keep the right forearm horizontal with the right upper arm
against the side and on line with the back.
 On count four, sharply move the left hand back to the left side as in the Position of Attention.

Figure 5-7. Right Shoulder Arms

May

TC 3-21.5

5-9

Chapter 5



Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a three-count movement (see figure 5-8). The command
is Order, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS (count one), without moving the head and without
changing the grasp of the right hand, press down quickly and firmly on the butt of the carbine
with the right hand and twist the weapon (with the sights up), guiding it diagonally across the
body and about 4 inches from the waist. Grasp the carbine with the left hand at the handguard
just forward of the slip ring.
 On count two, release the grasp of the right hand and move the carbine to the side as in Order
Arms, then regrasp the butt with the right hand.
 On count three, release the grasp of the left hand and return it sharply to the side as in the
Position of Attention, resuming Order Arms.

Figure 5-8. Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms

5-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons

LEFT SHOULDER ARMS
5-11. To execute Left Shoulder Arms, use the following procedures:
 Left Shoulder Arms from Order Arms is a four-count movement (see figure 5-9). The command is
Left Shoulder, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts.
 On count three, release the grasp of the left hand and (without moving the head) place the
carbine on the left shoulder with the right hand (with the sights up), keeping the right elbow
down. At the same time, regrasp the carbine with the left hand with the heel of the butt
between the first two fingers and with the thumb and forefinger touching. The left forearm is
horizontal, and the left upper arm is against the side and on line with the back.
 On count four, move the right hand to the right side as in the Position of Attention.

Figure 5-9. Left Shoulder Arms


May

Order Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a four-count movement (see figure 5-10 on page 5-12).
The command is Order, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS (count one), move the right hand up and across the
body and grasp the small of the stock, keeping the right elbow down.
 On count two (without moving the head), release the grasp of the left hand and with the right
hand move the carbine diagonally across the body (sights up) about 4 inches from the waist.
At the same time, regrasp the handguard just forward of the slip ring with the left hand, and
resume Port Arms.
 Counts three and four are the same as from Port Arms.

TC 3-21.5

5-11

Chapter 5

Figure 5-10. Order Arms from Left Shoulder Arms

CHANGING POSITIONS
5-12. To change position with the M4-series carbine, use the following procedures:
 Right Shoulder Arms from Port Arms is a three-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, release the grasp of the right hand and
regrasp the carbine with the heel of the butt between the first two fingers, with the thumb and
forefinger touching. Counts two and three are the same as counts three and four from Order Arms.
When marching, the command is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface.
 Port Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Port, ARMS.
On the command of execution ARMS, execute count one of Order Arms from Right Shoulder
Arms. On count two, release the grasp of the right hand and regrasp the carbine at the small of the
stock and come to Port Arms. When marching, the command is given as the right foot strikes the
marching surface.
 Left Shoulder Arms from Port Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Left Shoulder,
ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Left Shoulder Arms in the same manner
as counts three and four from Order Arms. When marching, the command is given as the left foot
strikes the marching surface.

5-12

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons











Port Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Port, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, execute the first two counts of Order Arms from Left Shoulder
Arms. When marching, the command is given as the left foot strikes the marching surface.
Left Shoulder Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Left
Shoulder, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute the first count the same as
executing Order Arms. On count two, remove the right hand from the butt of the carbine and
regrasp the small of the stock (Port Arms). Counts three and four are the same movements as from
Port Arms. When marching, the command is given as the left foot strikes the marching surface.
Right Shoulder Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a five-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts.
Counts three, four, and five are the same as from Port Arms. When marching, the command is
given as the right foot strikes the marching surface.
Present Arms from Right Shoulder Arms or Left Shoulder Arms, while in formation, is executed
from the Halt only. The command is Present, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS,
come to Port Arms from either shoulder and then execute Present Arms (in one count) from
Port Arms.
To resume Right (Left) Shoulder Arms from Present Arms, the command is Right (Left) Shoulder,
ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in one count and then execute
the counts as prescribed from Port Arms.

Note. Experienced Soldiers should be able to execute the 15-count manual of arms in unison from
Order, to Right Shoulder, to Left Shoulder, to Present, to Order Arms. The command is
Fifteen-Count Manual, ARMS.

FIX AND UNFIX BAYONETS
5-13. The command to Fix or Unfix Bayonets is given from Order Arms only. The movement is executed in
a military manner but not in cadence.
Note. The bayonet scabbard is worn on the left side with the tip of the scabbard on line with the
trouser leg seam and the barrel ring to the front.

FIX BAYONETS
5-14. To fix bayonets the command is Fix, BAYONETS. On the command of execution BAYONETS,
grasp the carbine barrel with the right hand, raise the carbine slightly, and place the butt of the carbine
between the feet, with the magazine well to the front. Grasp the carbine barrel with the left hand and move
the muzzle to the left front. With the right hand, unsnap the scabbard securing strap and withdraw the bayonet.
Keeping the eyes on the bayonet point, turn the point skyward and attach the bayonet to the carbine. To
engage the bayonet stud on the carbine with the base of the bayonet, grasp the handle, apply downward
pressure until a click is heard, and then apply limited upward pressure to ensure that the bayonet is seated
securely. Re-snap the scabbard securing strap with the right hand and then come to Order Arms.

UNFIX BAYONETS
5-15. To unfix bayonets the command is Unfix, BAYONETS. On the command of execution BAYONETS,
grasp the carbine barrel with the right hand at the handle of the bayonet and place the carbine butt between
the feet with the magazine well to the front. Move the muzzle to the left with the left hand and secure it.
Unsnap the scabbard securing strap with the right hand, then grasp the bayonet handle with the left hand and
release the bayonet from the carbine muzzle with the left hand. Keeping the eyes on the bayonet point, return
the bayonet to the scabbard and insert it with the barrel ring facing to the front. Re-snap the scabbard securing
strap and come to Order Arms. For safety, if the bayonet is difficult to remove from the carbine, stick the

May

TC 3-21.5

5-13

Chapter 5

bayonet point into the marching surface, bend over, and depress the catch mechanism with the left hand while
pulling upward on the carbine with the right hand.

SECTION II – SLING ARMS, M4-SERIES CARBINE
5-16. This section contains the procedures for executing manual of arms movements while at Sling Arms.

BASIC PROCEDURES
5-17. These procedures apply to all movements while at Sling Arms:
 Remain at Sling Arms during all rest movements.
 All individual and unit drill movements can be executed at Sling Arms except Double Time, Stack
Arms, and Fix and Unfix Bayonets, which are executed from Order Arms.
 When in formation at Sling Arms, execute the Hand Salute on the command Present, ARMS.
 Platoon leaders and platoon sergeants carry their rifles at Sling Arms during all drills and
ceremonies, and from this position they execute Present Arms only. They do not execute Unsling
Arms. This also applies to squad leaders when squads drill as separate units.
 When all members of a unit are carrying their rifles at Sling Arms, the platoon leaders and platoon
sergeants execute Present Arms only. They do not execute Unsling Arms.

SLING ARMS
5-18. To execute Sling Arms from Order Arms (see figure 5-11), use the following procedures:
 To execute Sling Army from Order Arms with the sling(s) loose, the command for Sling Arms is
Sling, ARMS.
 On the command of execution ARMS, grasp the sling near the upper sling swivel with the left
hand, and release the right hand. Place the right hand and arm between the sling and carbine and
place the sling over the right shoulder.
 Re-grasp the sling with the right hand so that the wrist is straight, the right forearm is horizontal,
the elbow is tight against the side, and the carbine is vertical.
 Release the grasp of the left hand and move it sharply to the left side as in the Position of Attention.

5-14

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons

Figure 5-11. Sling Arms
5-19. To return the carbine to Order Arms with the sling tight, the command is Adjust, SLINGS (see
figure 5-12 on page 5-16). On command of execution SLINGS, remove the carbine from the shoulder. Then,
grasp the barrel with the right hand and raise it vertically. With the left hand, place the butt of the carbine on
the right hip and cradle it in the crook of the right arm. Use both hands to tighten the sling on the ejection
port side. Grasp the handguards just above the slip ring with the left hand and move the weapon to the Order
Arms position. At the same time, move the right hand to the side and grasp the butt of the weapon. After
grasping the butt with the right hand, release the grasp of the left hand and return it sharply to the side as in
the Position of Attention and return to Order Arms.
5-20. From Order Arms with sling(s) tight, the command is Sling, ARMS. On the command of execution
ARMS, reach across the body with the left hand and grasp the handguards just above the slip ring and, with
the right hand, place the butt on the right hip, cradle the carbine in the crook of the right arm, and use both
hands to adjust the sling. Grasp the sling with the left hand near the upper sling swivel and execute Sling
Arms (as previously described in paragraph 5-17).

May

TC 3-21.5

5-15

Chapter 5

5-21. If an element is at Order Arms with the sling loose and the commander wants the sling to be tightened,
they command Adjust, SLINGS. On the command of execution SLINGS, tighten the sling and guide the
carbine to Order Arms (as previously described in paragraph 5-18).
Note. Unless otherwise specified, armed elements of a formation fall-in at Order Arms with slings
loose.

Figure 5-12. Adjust Slings
5-22. To return the carbine to Order Arms with the sling loose, the command is Unsling, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, reach across the body with the left hand and grasp the sling at the right
shoulder. Release the right hand grasp of the sling and remove the carbine from the shoulder. Grasp the barrel
with the right hand, release the left hand and regrasp the handguards just above the slip ring, release the grasp
of the right hand, and move the carbine to the Order Arms position (as previously described in paragraph 518). Move the carbine to the position of Order Arms and regrasp the butt with the right hand. After grasping
the butt with the right hand, release the grasp of the left hand and return it sharply to the side as in the Position
of Attention and return to Order Arms.

SALUTE AT SLING ARMS
5-23. To execute Salute while at Sling Arms (see figure 5-13), use the following procedures:
 To Salute while at Sling Arms, the command is Present, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, reach across the body with the left hand and grasp the
sling just above the right hand.
 Release the right hand and execute the Hand Salute.
 To terminate the Hand Salute, the command is Order, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, lower the right hand sharply to the side as in the
Position of Attention and then regrasp the sling at the original position.

5-16

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons




After grasping the sling with the right hand, release the left hand and return it sharply to the
left side as in the Position of Attention.
When rendering reports or courtesy to an individual, the same rules apply for the Hand Salute (as
explained in the individual drill).

Figure 5-13. Salute while at Sling Arms
Note. Individuals performing duty in congested areas, which would require frequent salutes,
should carry the weapon at Sling Arms.

PORT ARMS FROM SLING ARMS
5-24. To execute Port Arms from Sling Arms (see figure 5-14 on page 5-18), use the following procedures:
 The command for this movement is Port, ARMS:

May

TC 3-21.5

5-17

Chapter 5





On the command of execution ARMS, reach across the body with the left hand and grasp the
sling at the shoulder.
 Lift the weapon (by the sling), swing it to the front of the body, and grasp the small of the
stock with the right hand.
 Release the sling (left hand) and regrasp the weapon just forward of the slip ring.
Ensure that the carbine is 4 inches from the belt and held diagonally across the body. Keep the
elbows in at the sides and the right forearm horizontal.

5-25. To resume Sling Arms, the command is Sling, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, grasp
the sling near the upper sling swivel with the left hand. Release the right hand and swing the carbine back
onto the shoulder by placing the right arm between the sling and carbine, immediately resume the position
of Sling Arms.

Figure 5-14. Port Arms from Sling Arms

INSPECTION ARMS FROM SLING ARMS
5-26. To execute Inspection Arms from Sling Arms the command for this movement is Inspection, ARMS.
On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms and then execute counts three through seven in the
same manner as for Inspection Arms from Order Arms:
 Ready, Port, ARMS is executed in the same manner as explained in the manual of arms.
 To resume Sling Arms, the procedures are the same as from Port Arms.

5-18

TC 3-21.5

May

Individual Drill with Weapons

5-27. To execute Inspection Arms when the magazine is in the carbine, remove the magazine (just before
count three) with the left hand and place it between the waist (left front) and the clothing. Return the magazine
immediately after pulling the trigger and before resuming Port Arms. If the pistol belt is worn, the magazine
will be placed between the pistol belt and the clothing (left front).

May

TC 3-21.5

5-19

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 6

Squad Drill
“The [Soldiers] must learn to keep their ranks, to obey words of command, and signals
by drum and trumpet, and to observe good order, whether they halt, advance, retreat,
are upon a march, or engaged with an enemy.”

Niccolo Machiavelli: Arte della Guerra, 1520

SECTION I – FORMATIONS AND MOVEMENTS
6-1. This section describes the formations and movements of a squad. Individual drill movements and the
manual of arms are executed, as previously described in chapters 4 and 5, while performing as a squad
member.

BASIC INFORMATION
6-2. The squad has two prescribed formations—line and column. However, the squad may be formed into
a column of twos from a column formation. When the squad is in line, squad members are numbered from
right to left; when in column, from front to rear. The squad normally marches in column, but for short
distances it may march in line.
6-3. When the squad drills as a separate unit, the squad leader carries their weapon at Sling Arms. When
the squad is in a line formation, the squad leader assumes a post three steps in front of and centered on the
squad; when in a column or a column of twos, three steps to the left and centered on the squad. When the
squad drills as part of a larger unit, the squad leader occupies the number one (base) position of the squad.
Squad leaders carry their weapon in the same manner as prescribed for other rifle bearers in the squad.

FORMING THE SQUAD
6-4. The squad normally forms in a line formation; however, it may re-form in column when each member
can identify their exact position (equipment grounded) in the formation (see figure 6-1 on page 6-3).
6-5. To form at normal interval, the squad leader comes to the Position of Attention and commands
FALL IN. On the command FALL IN, the following actions occur simultaneously:
 Each member double-times to their position in the formation.
 The right flank Soldier positions themselves so that when the squad is formed it is three steps in
front of and centered on the squad leader.
 The right flank Soldier comes to the Position of Attention and raises their left arm laterally at
shoulder level, elbow locked, fingers and thumb extended and joined, and palm facing down. They
ensure that the left arm is in line with the body.
 The Soldier to the immediate left of the right flank Soldier comes to the Position of Attention,
turns their head and eyes to the right, and raises their left arm in the same manner as the right flank
Soldier. They obtain proper alignment by taking short steps forward or backward until they are on
line with the Soldiers on their right flank. They then obtain exact interval by taking short steps left
or right until their shoulder touches the extended fingertips of the Soldier on their right flank. As
soon as the Soldier to the left has obtained equal interval, each Soldier individually lowers their

May

TC 3-21.5

6-1

Chapter 6




arm to their side, sharply turns their head and eyes to the front, and assumes the Position of
Attention.
The right flank Soldier then sharply returns to the Position of Attention.
All other members of the squad form in the same manner except that the Soldiers on the left flank
do not raise their left arm.

Note. Right flank Soldiers raise their arms and look straight to the front unless the squad is to align
on an element to its right. If they are to align on an element to the right, they turn their head and
eyes to the right and align themselves with that element.
6-6. To form at Close Interval, the formation is completed in the manner prescribed for Normal Interval,
except that the command is At Close Interval, FALL IN as seen in figure 6-1. Squad members obtain Close
Interval by placing the heel of the left hand on the left hip even with the waist, fingers and thumb joined and
extended downward, and with the elbow in line with the body and touching the arm of the Soldier to the left
as seen in figure 6-3 on page 6-6.

6-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Squad Drill

Figure 6-1. Squad formation
6-7. To form in column, the squad leader faces the proposed flank of the column and commands In Column,
FALL IN. On the command of execution FALL IN, squad members double-time to their original positions
(grounded equipment) in formation and cover on the Soldier to their front.
Note. The correct distance between Soldiers in column formation is approximately 36 inches. This
distance is one-arm’s length plus 6 inches.
6-8. When armed, squad members fall in at Order Arms or Sling Arms. For safety, the commands
Inspection, ARMS; Ready, Port, ARMS; and Order (Sling), ARMS are commanded at the initial formation
of the day or when the last command is DISMISSED.

May

TC 3-21.5

6-3

Chapter 6

COUNTING OFF
6-9. The squad may count off in line or column formation. The command is Count, OFF:
 When the squad is in a line formation, the counting is executed from right to left. On the command
of execution OFF, each member, except the Soldiers on the right flank, turns their head and eyes
to the right, and the right flank Soldier counts off “ONE.” After the Soldier on the right counts off
their number, the Soldier to their left counts off with the next higher number and simultaneously
turns their head and eyes to the front. All the other members execute count off in the same manner
until the entire squad has counted off.
 When the squad is in column formation, the counting is executed from front to rear. On the
command of execution OFF, the Soldier at the head of the column turns their head and eyes to the
right and counts over their shoulder, “ONE.” After counting off their number, they immediately
come to the Position of Attention. All other members count their numbers in sequence in the same
manner as the number one Soldier; the last Soldier in the file does not turn their head and eyes to
the right.

CHANGING INTERVAL WHILE IN LINE
6-10. To change interval while in line, use the following procedures:
Note. To ensure that each member understands the number of steps to take, the squad leader should
command Count, OFF before giving any commands that cause the squad to change interval.
Members do not raise their arms when changing interval.
6-11. To obtain Close Interval from Normal Interval, the command is Close Interval, MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the Soldiers on the right flank (number one person) stands fast. All Soldiers
to the left of the number one person execute Right Step March, take one step less than their number (for
example, number five person takes four steps), and Halt.
Note. The squad leader takes the correct number of steps to maintain their position of three steps
in front of and centered on the squad.
6-12. To obtain Normal Interval from Close Interval, the command is Normal Interval, MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the Soldiers on the right flank stands fast. All Soldiers to the left of number
one person execute Left Step March, take one step less than their number (for example, the number nine
person takes eight steps), and Halt.
6-13. To obtain Double Interval from Normal Interval, the command is Double Interval, MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the Soldiers on the right flank stand fast. All Soldiers to the left of the
number one person face to the left as in marching, take one 30-inch step less than their number (for example,
number seven person takes six steps), Halt, and execute Right Face.
6-14. To obtain Normal Interval from Double Interval, the command is Normal Interval, MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the Soldiers on the right flank stand fast. All Soldiers to the left of the
number one person face to the right as in marching, take one 30-inch step less than their number (for example,
number three person takes two steps), Halt, and execute Left Face.

ALIGNMENT
6-15. Soldiers align front-to-back by covering on the Soldier to their front and align side-to-side by dressing
to the Soldier on their right. To cover, Soldiers position their heads, spines, and insides of the heels directly
behind the corresponding locations of the Soldier in front of them. Soldiers dress by ensuring their shoulders
are perpendicular to the direction of march and their insteps are in line with the Soldier to their front.
Figure 6-2 shows Soldiers properly aligned at Normal Interval.

6-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Squad Drill

Figure 6-2. Proper alignment at normal interval

ALIGNING THE SQUAD
6-16. To align the squad at Normal Interval, the commands are Dress Right, DRESS and Ready, FRONT.
These commands are given only when armed Soldiers are at Order Arms or Sling Arms. On the command of
execution DRESS, the Soldiers on the right flank stand fast. Each member, except the right flank person,
turns their head and eyes to the right and aligns themselves with the person on their right. Each member,
except the left flank person, extends their left arm laterally at shoulder level, elbow locked, fingers and thumb
extended and joined, palm facing down. They ensure their left arm is in line with their body and position
themselves by short steps right or left until their right shoulder touches the fingertips of the Soldier on their
right. On the command of execution FRONT, each member returns sharply to the Position of Attention (see
figure 6-3 on page 6-6).

May

TC 3-21.5

6-5

Chapter 6

Note. The squad leader commands the squad to the appropriate interval before giving the
command for alignment.

Figure 6-3. Alignment (close interval)

6-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Squad Drill

Note. If the squad leader wants exact alignment, on the command of execution DRESS, they face
to the Half Left in marching and march by the most direct route to a position on line with the squad,
halt one step from the Soldiers on the right flank, and face down the line. From their position, they
verify the alignment of the squad, directing the Soldiers to move forward or backward, as
necessary, calling them by name or number: “Private Miller, forward 2 inches;” “Number eight,
backward 4 inches.” The squad leader remains at attention, taking short steps to the right or left as
necessary to see down the squad. Having aligned the squad, they center themselves on the right
flank person by taking short steps left or right. The squad leader then faces to the Half Right in
marching, returns to their position (center of the squad), halts perpendicular to the formation, faces
to the left, and commands Ready, FRONT. These procedures also apply when aligning the squad
at Close or Double Interval.
6-17. To align the squad at Close Interval, the commands are At Close Interval, Dress Right, DRESS and
Ready, FRONT. The movement is executed in the same manner prescribed for alignment at Normal Interval
except that the squad members obtain Close Interval (see figure 6-3, page 6-6).
6-18. To align the squad at Double Interval, the commands are At Double Interval, Dress Right, DRESS
and Ready, FRONT. These commands are given only when the troops are unarmed or at Sling Arms. On the
command of execution DRESS, each member (except the right flank Soldier) turns their head and eyes to
the right and aligns themselves to the person to their right. At the same time, each member (except the right
and left flank person) extends both arms and positions themselves by short steps right or left until their
fingertips are touching the fingertips of the members on their right and left. (The right flank person raises
their left arm; the left flank person raises their right arm.)
6-19. To align the squad in column, the commands are COVER and RE-COVER. On the command
COVER, each member (except the number one person) raises their left arm to a horizontal position, elbow
locked, fingers and thumb extended and joined, palm facing down, and obtains an arm’s length plus about
6 inches (from the fingertips) to the back of the Soldier to their front. At the same time, each Soldier aligns
themselves directly behind the Soldier to their front. To resume the Position of Attention, the command RECOVER is given. On this command, each member sharply returns to the Position of Attention.

MARCHING THE SQUAD
6-20. To march the squad, use the following procedures:
 For short distances only, the squad may be marched forward while in a line formation.
 When marching long distances, the squad is marched in column.
 To form a column formation from a line formation, the command is Right, FACE.
 When a column formation is originated from a line formation at Close Interval, the squad may be
marched for short distances at the Half Step with less than correct distance. To obtain correct
distance while marching with less than correct distance, the command is Extend, MARCH. On
the command of execution MARCH, the number one person takes one more 15-inch step and then
steps off with a 30-inch step. Each squad member begins marching with a 30-inch step at the
approximate point where the number one person stepped off, or as soon as correct distance has
been obtained.
Note. See chapter 4 for more information on marching movements.

CHANGING THE DIRECTION OF A COLUMN
6-21. To change the direction of a column from the Halt, the command to start the squad in motion and
simultaneously change the direction of march 90 or 45 degrees is Column Right (Left), MARCH or Column
Half Right (Left), MARCH. On the command of execution MARCH, the lead person faces to the right (left)
as in marching by pivoting to the right (left) on the ball of the right foot and steps off in the indicated direction
taking a 30-inch step with the left foot and continues to march. The number two Soldier adjusts their step by

May

TC 3-21.5

6-7

Chapter 6

lengthening or shortening as necessary to reach the approximate pivot point of the lead person. When they
reach the approximate pivot point of the lead Soldier, they pivot to the right (left) on the ball of the lead foot
taking a 30-inch step with the trail foot in the new direction. All other members step off with the left foot and
continue to march forward taking 30-inch steps and execute in the same manner as the number two person in
approximately the same place until the entire squad has executed the column movement.
6-22. To change the direction of march 90 or 45 degrees when marching, the preparatory command Column
Right (Left) or Column Half Right (Half Left) is given as the foot (in the desired direction) strikes the
marching surface. The command of execution MARCH is given the next time the foot in the desired direction
strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, the lead person takes one additional
step, pivots in the commanded direction as the pivot foot strikes the marching surface and continues to march
in the new direction. Other members continue to march forward and execute the pivot as prescribed from the
Halt.
6-23. To avoid an obstacle in the line of march, the squad leader directs INCLINE LEFT (RIGHT). The
lead person inclines Left (Right) around the obstacle and resumes the original direction. All other members
follow the lead person.

MARCHING TO THE REAR
6-24. The command Rear, MARCH is given to the squad to change the direction of the marching element
180 degrees, in a uniform manner. Just like in individual drill (see paragraph 4-20), this movement is executed
while marching forward with a 30-inch step. To March to the Rear, the command Rear, MARCH is given
as the right foot strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, take one more step
with the left foot, pivot 180 degrees to the right on the balls of both feet, and step off in the new direction
taking a 30-inch step with the trail foot. Do not allow the arms to swing outward while turning.

MARCHING TO THE FLANK
6-25. The squad may be marched to the flank (for short distances only) when marching in column. The
command for this movement is Right (Left) Flank, MARCH. The preparatory command is given as the foot
in the desired direction strikes the marching surface, and the command of execution is given the next time
the foot in the desired direction strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, all
members take one more step, pivot 90 degrees in the commanded direction on the ball of the lead foot, and
step off in the new direction with the trailing foot. As the members begin to march in the new direction, they
glance out of the corner of their right eye and dress to the right.

FORMING A COLUMN OF TWOS AND RE-FORMING
6-26. To form a column of twos and re-form, use the following procedures:
 Forming a column of twos from a file is executed only from the Halt. The command is Column
of Twos to the Right (Left), MARCH. On the preparatory command, the lead team leader
commands STAND FAST. The trailing team leader commands Column Half Right (Left). On
the command of execution MARCH, the trailing team leader executes a Column Half Right
(Left), inclines to the left or right when the correct interval is obtained, and commands Mark time,
MARCH and Team, HALT to Halt abreast of the lead team leader.
 Forming a file from a column of twos is executed only from the Halt. The command is File from
the Left (Right), MARCH. On the preparatory command, the lead team leader commands
FORWARD. The trailing team leader commands STAND FAST. On the command of execution
MARCH, the lead team marches forward. The trailing team leader commands Column Half Left
(Right) when the second person from the rear of the lead team is abreast. They give the command
MARCH when the last person of the lead team is abreast of them and their right foot strikes the
marching surface. They then incline right or left to follow the lead team at the correct distance.

6-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Squad Drill

Note. Commands are given over the team leader’s right shoulder if the direction of movement is
to the right or if the team is following an element to its right. Commands are given over the left
shoulder if the direction of movement is to the left or if the team is following an element to its left.

DISMISSING THE SQUAD
6-27. The squad is dismissed with the members at Attention. With armed troops, the commands are
Inspection, ARMS; Ready, Port, ARMS; Order (Sling), ARMS; and DISMISSED. With unarmed troops,
the command is DISMISSED.
Note. Unless otherwise stated (by the person in charge in their instructions before the command
DISMISSED), the command DISMISSED terminates only the formation, not the duty day.
6-28. The command Fall Out will only be used when an individual or individuals are being removed from
the formation and the entire formation is not being dismissed. For example, Sergeant Jones, Fall Out or
Third Squad, Fall Out. In this situation, the remainder of the formation would stay at the current
configuration until the command Dress Right, Dress (At Close Interval, Dress Right, Dress) or Cover are
given.

SECTION II – STACK AND TAKE ARMS (M4-SERIES CARBINE)
6-29. The squad members execute Stack and Take Arms from their positions in line formation (at Normal
Interval) from Order Arms. When in line formation, the squad leader commands Count, OFF and then
designates the stack person by numbers (for example, 2-5-8).
Notes. 1. M4-series carbines are not compatible with the M16-series rifles when stacking arms.
The two types of weapons must be stacked separately or grounded in a manner that will not
damage the sights. (See appendix C for a detailed explanation of Stack Arms and Take Arms for
the M14-series rifle.)
2. When the squad is part of a larger unit, stack arms may be executed in a column formation
(when the formation consists of three or more files and the squads are at normal interval). Second
or third squad is designated as the stack squad.

PREPARE SLINGS
6-30. After the stack person is designated, the squad leader then commands Prepare, SLINGS. On the
command of execution SLINGS, each stack person (or stack squad) reaches across the body with their left
hand and grasp the handguards just above the slip ring. With the right hand they place the butt on the right
hip and cradles the carbine in the crook of the right arm. Using both hands, they adjust the sling keeper so
that a 2-inch loop is formed from the sling keeper to the upper sling swivel. As soon as the loop is prepared,
they return to Order Arms.

STACK ARMS
6-31. When all stack personnel have returned to Order Arms, the squad leader commands Stack, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, each stack person reaches across the body with the left hand and grasps
the handguards just above the slip ring. Designated stack persons then grasp the barrel of their carbine with
their right hand and place the carbine directly in front of and centered on their body with the sling side to the
front. The butt (fully extended) is placed on the marching surface so that the heel of the butt (or side of the
butt if the sling is side mounted) is on line with the toes of the stack person’s footgear. Stack persons bend
deeply forward at the waist and grasp their carbine with their left hand at the upper portion of the handguard,

May

TC 3-21.5

6-9

Chapter 6

keeping the carbine vertical at all times. The first two fingers of the left hand hold the inner part of the loop
against the carbine. Stack persons reach across the front of the carbine with their right hand, grasp the outer
part of the loop, and hold it open for insertion of other carbines (see figure 6-4 on page 6-11).
6-32. On the command of execution ARMS, the Soldiers to the right and left of the stack person perform the
following movements simultaneously:
 The Soldier on the stack person’s right reach across the body with the left hand and grasps the
handguard. They release the grasp of their right hand and regrasp the carbine at the small of the
stock. They lower both arms with the elbows locked (holding the carbine in a horizontal position
with the muzzle to the left and the magazine well to the front).
 The Soldier on the stack person’s left reaches across the body with the left hand and grasps the
carbine at the small of the stock, releases the right hand, and regrasps the handguard. They then
lower both arms with the elbows locked (holding the carbine in a horizontal position with the
muzzle to the right and magazine well to the front).
6-33. As soon as the stack person has placed their carbine in position, both Soldiers move the foot nearest
the stack person halfway (Half Right or Half Left) toward the stack person. The Soldier on the stack person’s
left inserts the muzzle of their carbine into the loop to a point about halfway between the flash suppressor
and the front sight assembly. They hold their carbine in this position until the Soldier on the stack person’s
right inserts the muzzle of their carbine in a similar manner and above the other muzzle.
6-34. Without moving the feet, both Soldiers swing the butt of their carbines out and then down to the
marching surface, making the stack tight with the butts of the carbines on line and about 1 foot from the base
line. When the stack has been completed, all three Soldiers resume the Position of Attention.
6-35. Additional carbines are passed to the nearest stack on the right (right or left if stacked in column). The
Soldier with additional rifles grasps the handguards with the left hand, release the grasp of the right hand and
regrasps the weapon at the barrel. The Soldiers release the grasp of the left hand and raise the carbine
vertically with the magazine well to the front, wrist held shoulder high, elbow locked, and right arm extended
to the right front. Throughout the pass, the carbine is held vertical with the magazine well to the front:
 The Soldier to the left of the stack person then grasps the carbine at the handguard with their left
hand. The Soldier passing the additional carbine then releases the carbine and sharply returns to
the Position of Attention. The Soldier to the left of the stack person then moves the carbine to the
right until it is centered on their body, and they grasp the barrel with their right hand, wrist held
shoulder high and elbow locked. They then release the left hand and sharply returns their left hand
to the left side as in the Position of Attention. They then move the carbine to their right front.
 The stack person receives the carbine and centers it in the same manner as previously described
in paragraph 6-33. The Soldier to the left of the stack person sharply returns to the Position of
Attention after they release the carbine. Once the stack person has centered the carbine and grasped
the barrel with the right hand, they bend forward at the waist and places the carbine in the stack
so that it is secure (without damaging the front sight assembly). If there are two additional carbines,
the second carbine is passed in the same manner as the first.

TAKE ARMS
6-36. To Take Arms, the command is Take, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, the Soldier return
the additional carbines in the same manner as the carbines were received. The stack person secures the stack
and holds the loop in the same manner as for stacking carbines. The Soldiers on the left and right step toward
the stack person in the same manner as when stacking arms. Each Soldier reaches down and regrasps their
carbine (one hand at the small of the stock and one hand midway of the handguard) and brings it to the
horizontal position. The Soldier on the right frees their carbine first and resumes Order Arms. The Soldier on
the left frees their carbine and resumes Order Arms. The stack person cradles their carbine and adjusts the
sling and sling keeper to its original position and then resumes Order Arms.

6-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Squad Drill

Figure 6-4. Stack weapons (M4)

May

TC 3-21.5

6-11

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 7

Platoon Drill
“If in training Soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be
well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad.”
Sun Tsu, On the Art of War, trans. 1910

SECTION I – FORMATIONS
7-1. The platoon has two prescribed formations—line and column (see figure 7-1 on page 7-2 and figure 7-2
on page 7-3). However, the platoon may be formed into a file or a column of twos from a column formation.
When in a line formation, the elements (squads) of a platoon are numbered from front to rear; in a column
formation, from left to right.

May

TC 3-21.5

7-1

Chapter 7

Figure 7-1. Line formation

7-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill

Figure 7-2. Column formation

BASIC INFORMATION
7-2. For the most part, platoon drill merely provides the procedures for executing drill movements in
conjunction with other squads formed in the same formation. Individual drill movements and the manual of
arms are executed, as previously described in chapters 4, 5, and 6, while performing as a squad member
during the conduct of platoon drill. For continuity purposes in this chapter, “platoon sergeant” may also
denote “platoon leader” when the platoon sergeant is executing drill from their post.
7-3. During all drill and ceremonies, the platoon leader and platoon sergeant carry their rifles at Sling Arms.
When the platoon drills as part of a larger unit, the platoon leader and platoon sergeant remain at Sling Arms
during all manual of arms movements except when executing the Hand Salute while at Sling Arms.

May

TC 3-21.5

7-3

Chapter 7

7-4. When the platoon drills as a separate unit or as part of a larger unit in a line formation, without officers
present, the post for the platoon sergeant is three steps in front of and centered on the platoon. When in
column formation, the post for the platoon sergeant is three steps to left flank of and centered on the platoon.
The post for the platoon sergeant with the platoon leader present is one step to the rear and centered on the
platoon in line or column formation.
7-5. When assuming their post in column from a line formation with the platoon leader present, the platoon
sergeant faces to the left in marching (on the command of execution FACE) and marches in the most direct
route to their post. The platoon sergeant then halts and faces to the right. When assuming their post in line
from a column formation, they face to the right in marching (on the command of execution FACE) and march
in the most direct route to their post, halt centered on the platoon, and face to the left.
Note. When the files (columns) are uneven, the platoon sergeant normally directs the Soldiers in
longer files to move to another file to balance the formation or may fill the vacancy themselves as
the last person in the right file.
7-6. When control of the formation is being exchanged between the platoon sergeant and the platoon leader,
the platoon sergeant will always travel around the right flank (squad leader) of the formation when marching
from post to post. The platoon leader will always travel around the left flank of the formation when marching
post to post.
7-7. On the command Open Ranks, MARCH; Backward, MARCH; Right (Left) Step, MARCH;
Forward, MARCH and on commands that cause the platoon to change interval in line, they move at the
same time (with the appropriate step) so as to maintain proper position.
7-8. The leader of the first squad serves as the base when the platoon is in a line formation. The leader of
the fourth squad serves as the base when the platoon is in a column formation.
7-9. If for some reason the platoon is authorized a guidon or phase banner (in training units, for example),
the bearer’s post is one step in front of and two 15-inch steps to the right of and facing the person forming
the platoon. When the formation is faced to the right for a marching movement, they execute in the same
manner as explained in appendix G, except that their post is three steps in front of and centered on the squad
leaders. If the platoon leader is present and at their post, the bearer’s post is one step to the rear and two
15-inch steps to the left of the platoon leader.
7-10. When the platoon drills as a separate unit, in a line formation, the post for the platoon leader is six
steps in front of and centered on the platoon; when in a column formation, the platoon leader is six steps to
the left flank and centered on the platoon. When marching as part of a larger formation, their post is one step
in front of and centered on the squad leaders.
7-11. When the platoon leader commands Open Ranks, MARCH; Backward, MARCH; Right (Left) Step,
MARCH; Forward, MARCH or causes the platoon to change interval, they move at the same time (with
the appropriate step) so as to maintain proper position:
 When assuming their post in column from a line formation, the platoon leader faces to the right in
marching (on the command of execution FACE) and marches in the most direct route to their post,
halts, and faces to the left.
 When assuming their post in line from a column formation, the platoon leader faces to the left in
marching (on the command of execution FACE) and marches in the most direct route to their post,
halts perpendicular to the formation, and faces to the right.

FORMING THE PLATOON
7-12. The platoon normally forms in a line formation; however, it may re-form in a column when each
Soldier can identify their exact position (equipment grounded) in the formation.
7-13. The platoon forms basically the same as a squad. The platoon sergeant assumes the Position of
Attention and commands FALL IN (At Close Interval, FALL IN or In Column, FALL IN). On the
command FALL IN (At Close Interval, FALL IN), the squad leader and the first squad (when formed) are

7-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill

three steps in front of and centered on the platoon sergeant. Other squad leaders cover on the first squad
leader at the correct distance, which is obtained by estimation. The members of the first squad fall in on their
squad leader as prescribed for squad drill. Members of the other squads fall in on their squad leader, assume
the Position of Attention, and turn their heads and eyes to the right. They obtain correct distance by taking
short steps forward or backward and align themselves on the Soldier to their right. They then sharply turn
their heads and eyes to the front as in the Position of Attention and obtain proper interval by taking short
steps left and right to cover on the Soldier to their front. Members of all squads, other than the first squad,
will not raise their left arms unless the Soldier to their immediate left has no one to their front in the formation
on which to cover.
7-14. When armed, members fall in at Order Arms or Sling Arms. For safety, the commands Inspection,
ARMS; Ready, Port, ARMS; Order (Sling), ARMS are given at the initial formation of the day and just
before the last command, DISMISSED.
7-15. When a report is appropriate, the platoon sergeant commands REPORT. The squad leaders, in
succession from front to rear, turn their heads and eyes toward the platoon sergeant and salute (holding the
Salute until returned) and report. The squad leaders do not state the unit. For example—
 Situation 1. When all squad members are in formation, the report is “All present.”
 Situation 2. When squad members are absent, the Soldiers name and reasons for absence are
reported:
 Private Smit—charge of quarter’s runner.
 Private Miller—sick call.
 Private Rodriguez—absent without leave.
7-16. Platoon sergeants turn their head and eyes toward the reporting squad leader, receive the report, and
return the salute. After receiving the report from the squad leaders, the platoon sergeant faces about and
awaits the arrival of the platoon leader or a directive from the first sergeant to REPORT. When the platoon
leader has halted at their post, the platoon sergeant salutes and reports, “Sir or Ma’am, All present,” or “Sir
or Ma’am, All accounted for,” or “Sir or Ma’am, (so many) Soldiers are absent.” The platoon leader returns
the Salute. After the Salute has been returned, the platoon sergeant faces to the right in marching, inclines
around the squad leaders, halts at their post, and faces to the right. If reporting to the first sergeant, the platoon
sergeant turns their head and eyes toward the first sergeant, salutes, and reports.
7-17. If the platoon leader is not present for the formation, and the commander is in charge of the formation,
the platoon sergeant steps forward three steps to be a total of six steps and centered on their platoon (after
receiving the squad leader’s report) and, on the command POST, assumes the duties of the platoon leader.
7-18. When appropriate, the platoon may be formed by the platoon leader rather than by the platoon sergeant.
The procedures are the same as previously described in paragraph 7-17 except that the first squad forms six
steps in front of and centered on the platoon leader, and the platoon sergeant forms at their post to the rear of
the platoon. For continuity purposes in this chapter, “platoon sergeant” may also denote “platoon leader”
when the platoon leader is executing drill from their post.

BREAKING RANKS
7-19. When the situation requires, the platoon sergeant directs: “Private Rodriguez (pause), front and
center;” or “The following personnel front and center—Private Rodriguez (pause), Private Miller.” When
the individual’s name is called, they assume the Position of Attention and reply, “Here, Sergeant (Sir or
Ma’am).” They then take one (15-inch) step backward, halt, face to the right (left) in marching, and exit the
formation by marching to the nearest flank. The Soldier does not look left or right. Once the individual has
cleared the formation, they begin to double-time and halt two steps in front of and centered on the platoon
sergeant.
Note. When a group of individuals are called from the formation, the group forms centered on the
platoon sergeant. The platoon sergeant should direct (point) the first Soldier into position so that
the rank will be centered when the last Soldier has joined the group.

May

TC 3-21.5

7-5

Chapter 7

COUNTING OFF
7-20. The platoon counts off in the same manner as the squad. When in a line formation, the squads count in
unison from right to left; each squad leader sounds off, “ONE.” When in a column formation, the Soldiers
abreast of each other count in unison from front to rear; each squad leader sounds off, “ONE.”

CHANGING INTERVAL
7-21. The platoon changes interval in a line formation in the same manner as the squad. To change interval
when the platoon is in a column at the Halt, the right file stands fast and serves as the base. All other members
(abreast of each other) execute the movement as previously described in paragraph 6-10. To obtain
Close Interval from Normal Interval, the third squad takes one right step, the second squad takes two right
steps, and the first squad takes three right steps. To obtain Normal Interval, the procedures are the same
except that the squads execute the same number of left steps.
7-22. To change interval when the platoon is marching in a column, the preparatory command Close Interval
is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface, and the command of execution MARCH is given the
next time the right foot strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, the base squad
(right file) takes one more 30-inch step and then executes the Half Step. All other Soldiers take one more
step, simultaneously execute a Column Half Right, and march until Close Interval is obtained. They execute
a Column Half Left and assume the Half Step when abreast of the corresponding Soldier of the base squad.
On the command Forward, MARCH, all Soldiers resume marching with a 30-inch step. The commands
Mark Time, MARCH and Platoon, HALT may also be given.
7-23. To resume marching at Normal Interval, the preparatory command Normal Interval is given as the left
foot strikes the marching surface, and the command of execution MARCH is given the next time the left
foot strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, the platoon members obtain
Normal Interval in the same manner prescribed for Close Interval except that they each execute Column Half
Left and then Column Half Right.
7-24. To obtain Double Interval from Normal Interval, the procedures are the same as from Close Interval
to Normal Interval.
7-25. To obtain Normal Interval from Double Interval (closing the formation in column from Open Ranks),
the procedures are the same as obtaining Close Interval from Normal Interval.

ALIGNING THE PLATOON
7-26. The platoon is aligned similar to the squad. On the command of execution DRESS, the first squad
leader stands fast and serves as the base. Other squad leaders obtain correct distance by estimation. The
members of the first squad execute in the same manner as in squad drill to obtain exact interval. All other
squads execute as the first squad, except that each squad member raises the left arm only for uniformity,
covering (glancing out the corner of the left eye) on the Soldier to the front.
7-27. If the platoon sergeant wants exact alignment, they face to the Half Left (Half Right) in marching and
march (on the command of execution DRESS) by the most direct route to a position on line with the first
squad, halt one step from the squad leader or left flank Soldier, and face down the line. From this position,
they verify the alignment of the first squad, directing the Soldier to move forward or backward, as necessary,
calling them by name or number: “Private Smit, forward 2 inches; Number eight, backward 4 inches.” The
platoon sergeant remains at Attention, taking short steps to the right or left as necessary, to see down the
squad:
 Having aligned the first squad, the platoon sergeant, after centering themselves on the first squad,
faces to the Left (Right) in marching, taking two (three if at open ranks) short steps to the next
squad, halts, faces down the line, and aligns the squad in the same manner.
 After the last squad is aligned, the platoon sergeant centers themselves on the squad leader by
taking short steps left or right, faces to the Right (Left) in marching, returns to their position
(centered on the platoon), halts perpendicular to the formation, faces to the Left (Right), and
commands Ready, FRONT.

7-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill

Note. When the platoon dresses as part of a larger formation, all squad leaders turn their heads and
eyes to their right and align themselves on the unit to their right. The platoon sergeant aligns the
platoon from the left flank rather than from the right flank when their platoon is not formed as the
right flank platoon.
7-28. To align the platoon in column, the commands are COVER and RE-COVER. On the command
COVER, the fourth squad leader stands fast and serves as base. The squad leaders, except for the left flank
squad leader, raise their arms laterally and turn their heads and eyes to the right. The members of the fourth
squad raise their left arms horizontally (as in squad drill) to the front and cover the Soldier to their front at
correct distance (one arm’s length plus 6 inches). Squad members of the third, second, and first squads raise
their left arms horizontally to the front (for uniformity only), cover on the Soldier to their front, and, at the
same time, glance out of the corner of their right eyes aligning on the Soldiers to their right. To resume the
Position of Attention, the command is RE-COVER. On this command, each Soldier sharply returns to the
Position of Attention.
Note. When the platoon is aligned in column as part of a larger unit but is not the lead platoon, the
squad leaders do not raise their arms or turn their heads and eyes but cover on the squad to their
front. The platoon sergeant must wait until the platoon to their front has been given the command
RE-COVER before giving the command COVER. If the platoon leader is at their post, they must
wait until the platoon leader of the platoon to their front has commanded RE-COVER before they
face about and give the command COVER.

OPENING AND CLOSING RANKS
7-29. Open Ranks, MARCH is executed from a line formation while at the halt. It may be executed while
at any of the prescribed intervals. The command for this movement is Open Ranks, MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the front rank takes two steps forward, the second rank takes one step
forward, the third rank stands fast, and the fourth rank takes two 15-inch steps backward. If additional ranks
are present, the fifth rank takes four steps backward, and the sixth rank takes six steps backward.
Note. After taking the prescribed steps, the Soldiers do not raise their arms. If the platoon sergeant
wants exact interval or alignment, they command At Close Interval (At Double Interval), Dress
Right, DRESS. If the platoon is to align on an element to the right, the squad leaders turn their
heads and eyes to the right and align themselves with that element.
7-30. To Close Ranks, the command is Close Ranks, MARCH. On the command of execution MARCH,
the first rank takes four steps backward, the second rank takes two steps backward, the third rank stands fast,
and the fourth rank takes one step forward. On the command of execution MARCH, the platoon leader and
platoon sergeant take the appropriate number of steps to maintain their posts.

RESTING THE PLATOON
7-31. The platoon rests in the same manner prescribed previously in paragraphs 4-6 and 5-4. The platoon
sergeant places the platoon at the Position of Attention and then into one of the rest positions.

DISMISSING THE PLATOON
7-32. The procedures for dismissing the platoon are basically the same as prescribed for the squad. If the
platoon sergeant so desires, the squads may be released to the control of the squad leaders. The platoon
sergeant commands TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR SQUADS, and Salutes are exchanged. The platoon
sergeant is no longer part of the formation.

May

TC 3-21.5

7-7

Chapter 7

Note. Without leaving their positions, the squad leaders turn their heads and eyes over the left
shoulder and command FALL OUT. The squad leaders move to a position in the immediate area,
and command FALL IN. Then, they carry out the previous instructions and/or give any
instructions for actions before the next duty formation.
7-33. At times the platoon sergeant may want to turn the formation over to a subordinate; for example, to
have the subordinate march the platoon to a different location:
 The platoon sergeant calls on an individual and the individual breaks rank (see paragraph 7-3).
The designated Soldier posts two steps from and facing the platoon sergeant. The platoon sergeant
passes on any additional instructions and Salutes are exchanged. After exchanging Salutes, the
platoon sergeant moves to a position where they can observe, or they may resume their post at the
rear of the formation.
 The subordinate steps forward two steps and assumes the post of the platoon sergeant. The platoon
sergeant is no longer part of the formation; however, they may march alongside of, or behind, the
formation to make any corrections or to give further guidance, if necessary.
7-34. If the platoon leader is at their post, they command PLATOON SERGEANT. The platoon sergeant
faces to the left in marching and inclines around the squad leaders’ left flank, halts three steps in front of and
centered on the platoon and faces to the right. The platoon leader then commands TAKE CHARGE OF
THE PLATOON, and Salutes are exchanged. The platoon leader is no longer part of the formation. The
platoon sergeant remains at their post, faces about, and carries out the platoon leader’s instructions.

SECTION II – MOVEMENTS
7-35. The platoon marches in the same manner prescribed for the squad. When the platoon is marching in a
line, the first squad leader serves as the guide, and when the platoon is marching in a column, the fourth
squad leader serves as the guide. When marching in line, each member of each squad (glancing out of the
corner of their right eye) maintains alignment on the Soldier to their right. When marching in column, each
member of the first, second, and third squads maintains alignment on the Soldier to their right.

EYES RIGHT
7-36. The platoon renders courtesy during ceremonies or when marching past the Colors by executing Eyes
Right. The commands for this movement are Eyes, RIGHT and Ready, FRONT.
7-37. At the Halt, all Soldiers (on the command of execution, RIGHT), while keeping their shoulders
parallel to the front, turn their heads and eyes to the right at a 45-degree angle. They focus on and follow the
person passing to the front until they are again looking forward, at which time their heads and eyes remain
fixed to the front. Only the platoon leader renders the Hand Salute.
7-38. When marching, the preparatory command Eyes is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface
and the command of execution RIGHT is given the next time the right foot strikes the marching surface. On
the command of execution RIGHT, all Soldiers, except the right file, turn their heads and eyes to the right
and align themselves on the right file while continuing to march. Soldiers in the right file do not turn their
heads and eyes but continue looking straight to the front and maintain correct distance. Only the platoon
leader salutes. To terminate the courtesy, the preparatory command Ready is given as the left foot strikes the
marching surface, and the command of execution FRONT is given the next time the left foot strikes the
marching surface. On the command of execution, the Soldiers turn their heads and eyes sharply to the front
and the platoon leader terminates the Hand Salute.

CHANGING THE DIRECTION OF A COLUMN
7-39. The platoon changes the direction of marching basically the same as the squad. During a column
movement, the base element is the squad on the flank in the direction of the turn.

7-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill

7-40. To change the direction 90 degrees, the command is Column Right (Left), MARCH. On the command
of execution MARCH, the base squad executes the movement as in squad drill except that the squad leader
takes one 30-inch step and then takes up the Half Step. The squad leader continues marching with the Half
Step until the other squad leaders come abreast. The other squad leaders, while maintaining correct (offset)
interval, execute a 45-degree pivot and continue marching in an arc. As they come on line (abreast) with the
base squad leader, they take up the Half Step. When all squad leaders are abreast, they step off with a 30-inch
step without command. All other platoon members march forward on the command of execution and execute
the column movement at approximately the same location as their squad leaders and in the same manner.
Note. When the platoon sergeant is marching their platoon as a separate unit or when the company
is marching without officers in charge, the platoon sergeant stays centered on the platoon. When
the platoon leader and platoon sergeant are marching at their post in column as part of a larger
formation, they execute a Column Half Right (Left) rather than a 90-degree column movement.
After executing the Column Half Right (Left), they continue marching in an arc, incline as
necessary, and resume their correct positions. After sensing that the squad leaders are abreast of
each other, the platoon leader resumes the 30-inch step. At times, the platoon leader may find it
necessary to shorten or lengthen their step to maintain correct distance from the unit to the front.
7-41. To change the direction 45 degrees, the command is Column Half Right (Left), MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the platoon executes the movement in the same manner as a 90-degree turn
except that the base squad leader, as well as the other squad leaders, execute a Column Half Right (Left).
Note. When executing a column movement at Double Time, elements adjust the length of their
steps so that interval and distance are maintained through and beyond the pivot point.
7-42. To march a platoon in the opposite direction, the command Rear, MARCH is given by the platoon
sergeant the same way as previously discussed in paragraphs 4-20 and 6-26. The platoon marches in the
opposite direction (Rear, MARCH) in the same manner as the squad.
7-43. The platoon inclines in the same manner as the squad discussed in paragraph 6-24. The squad nearest
the direction of the turn serves as the base. To avoid an obstacle in the path of the march, the platoon leader
directs INCLINE AROUND LEFT (RIGHT).
7-44. When space is limited and the platoon sergeant wants to march their unit in the opposite direction
(reverse), with the squad leaders at the head of their squads, they command Counter-Column, MARCH. On
the command of execution MARCH (at the Halt), the first squad marches forward three steps, executes a
Column Right, marches across the front of the platoon, and executes another Column Right just beyond the
fourth squad. The second squad steps forward one step, executes a Column Right, marches forward, and
executes another Column Right between the third and fourth squads. The third squad executes two short
Column Lefts from the Halt and marches between the remainder of the third squad and the second squad. The
fourth squad marches forward two steps, executes a Column Left, marches across the front of the platoon,
and executes another Column Left between the first and second squads (see figure 7-3 on page 7-10).

May

TC 3-21.5

7-9

Chapter 7

Figure 7-3. Counter-Column March at the Halt
7-45. As the third squad leader marches past the last person in the third squad, they and their squad begin to
march at the Half Step. After marching past the last Soldier in each file, all other squads incline to the right
and left as necessary, obtain Normal Interval on the third squad and begin to march with the Half Step. When
all squads are abreast of each other, they begin marching with a 30-inch step without command.
7-46. If a guidon or phase banner is present, on the command of execution MARCH of Counter-Column,
MARCH the bearer executes a Column Right, marches across the platoon, and executes another Column
Right just beyond the fourth squad, and then inclines as necessary to return to the bearers post.
7-47. During the movement, without the platoon leader present, the platoon sergeant marches alongside the
first squad. With the platoon leader present, the platoon sergeant marches one step to the rear and centered
between the second and third squads (see figure 7-2 on page 7-3) and the platoon leader marches alongside
the first squad.

7-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill

7-48. When marching, the preparatory command Counter-Column is given as the left foot strikes the
marching surface and the command of execution MARCH is given the next time the left foot strikes the
marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, the platoon executes the movement basically the
same as from the Halt, except that the squad takes one additional step to ensure that the pivot foot is in the
correct position to execute the movement.
Notes. 1. When there are only three squads in the column, the first squad takes two steps before
executing.
2. When the platoon leader and platoon sergeant are marching at their posts as part of a larger
formation, the platoon leader takes three steps forward and executes a column right, marches
across the front of the platoon, executes another column right (just beyond fourth squad), marches
to their post in the most direct manner, takes up the Half Step, and then steps off with a 30-inch
step when the squad leaders come on line. The platoon sergeant inclines to the right, follows the
third squad until the movement is completed, and then resumes their post.

MARCHING TO THE FLANKS
7-49. The platoon may be marched to the flank (for short distances only) when marching in column. The
command for this movement is Right (Left) Flank, MARCH. The preparatory command is given as the foot
in the desired direction strikes the marching surface, and the command of execution is given the next time
the foot in the desired direction strikes the marching surface. On the command of execution MARCH, all
members take one more step, pivot 90 degrees in the commanded direction on the ball of the lead foot, and
step off in the new direction with the trailing foot. As the members begin to march in the new direction, they
glance out of the corner of their right eyes and dress to the right.

FORMING A FILE AND RE-FORMING
7-50. The platoon forms a single file, from the right, left, or as designated, only when in column and at the
Halt. The commands are File from the left (right), MARCH or File in sequence three-two-four-one,
MARCH.
Note. If the squad’s direction of travel is to the left, or the squad is immediately following an
element on the left, then all supplementary commands will be given over the left shoulder. If the
squad’s direction of travel is forward or to the right, or is immediately following a squad on the
right, all supplementary commands will be given over the right shoulder. The squad leaders give
the appropriate command so that they are following the last Soldier in the preceding squad at the
correct distance.
7-51. On the preparatory command, the squad leader of the designated squad gives the supplementary
command Forward. The other squad leaders command STAND FAST. On the command of execution
MARCH (given by the platoon sergeant), the lead squad marches forward. The squad leader next to the lead
element (or as designated) looks over the shoulder nearest the moving element and commands Column Half
Left (Right) when the second from the last Soldier is abreast of them and their right foot strikes the marching
surface. The squad leader gives the command of execution MARCH as the right foot of the last Soldier
strikes the marching surface when abreast of them. On the command of execution, the squad leader executes
the Column Half Left (Right), then inclines without command to the right (left) and follows the last Soldier
of the preceding squad at correct distance. Other members of the squad march forward and execute the same
movements as the squad leader. The remaining squads form the file in the same manner as the squad
immediately behind the lead element.
7-52. The platoon may form a file and execute a column movement simultaneously from a column formation.
The command for this movement is File from the left (right), Column Left (Right), MARCH. Following
the platoon sergeant’s preparatory command, the squad leader of the lead element commands Column Left

May

TC 3-21.5

7-11

Chapter 7

(Right), instead of Forward. The other squad leaders command STAND FAST. On the platoon leader’s
command of execution MARCH, the lead squad executes the Column Left (Right). The other squad leaders
command Column Left (Right) (when the second from the last person is abreast of them) and then gives the
command of execution MARCH as the right foot of the last person strikes the marching surface abreast of
them.
Notes. 1. At this point, the platoon is executing platoon drill. The platoon sergeant will not release
control of the squads to the squad leaders. The platoon sergeant will rest personnel on an as needed
basis; for example, when filing into a building.
2. The squad leaders give the command of execution MARCH as the right foot of the last Soldier
strikes the marching surface at the pivot (Column Left), or the first time the last Soldier’s right
foot strikes the marching surface after the pivot (Column Right).
7-53. The platoon re-forms to the original column formation only from the Halt. The command is Column
of fours to the right (left), MARCH:
Note. To re-form the platoon to its original column formation when the file was formed on the
command In Sequence, MARCH, the commands FALL OUT and FALL IN must be given.




On the preparatory command, the squad leader of the base squad commands STAND FAST. All
other squad leaders command Column Half Right (Left). On the platoon sergeant’s command of
execution MARCH, the base squad stands fast; all other squads execute the Column Half Right
(Left) simultaneously.
As each of the moving squad leaders reach a point (line) that ensures correct interval on the
element to their left (right), they automatically incline to the left (right) and command Mark Time,
MARCH and Squad, HALT so that their squad is abreast of the base (other) squad when halted.

FORMING A COLUMN OF TWOS AND RE-FORMING
7-54. The platoon forms a column of twos from the right or left when in a column of fours at the Halt. The
command is Column of twos from the left (right), MARCH:
 On the preparatory command, the squad leaders of the two lead squads command Forward. The
other squad leaders command STAND FAST:
 On the platoon sergeant’s command of execution MARCH, the two lead squads march
forward. The squad leader (second or third) next to the lead element gives the command to
start both remaining squads in motion. Looking over the shoulder nearest the moving
elements, the squad leader gives the preparatory command Column Half Left (Right) (when
the second from the last Soldier is abreast of them) and then gives the command of execution
MARCH as the right foot of the last Soldier strikes the marching surface abreast of them.
 On the platoon sergeant’s command of execution, both squad leaders execute the Column
Half Left (Right), incline to the right (left) without command, and follow the last Soldiers of
the preceding squads at correct distance (do not close the space if the files of the two leading
squads are uneven). Other members of the remaining squads march forward and execute the
same movements as their squad leaders.
 The platoon may form a column of twos and execute a column movement simultaneously from a
column formation. The command for this movement is Column of twos from the left (right),
Column left (right), MARCH:
 The squad leaders of the lead squads command Column Left (Right) instead of Forward. The
squad leader of the second (third) squad gives the command Column Left (Right); however,
they execute Column Half Left (Right). The remaining two squad leaders command STAND
FAST.

7-12

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill





On the platoon sergeant’s command of execution MARCH, the lead squads execute the
Column Left (Right). The squad leader (second or third) next to the lead elements gives the
command to start both squads in motion. Looking over the shoulder nearest the moving
elements, the squad leader gives the preparatory command Column Left (Right) when the
second from the last Soldier is abreast of them. Then they give the command of execution
MARCH as the right foot of the last Soldier strikes the marching surface at the pivot (Column
Left) or the first time the last Soldier’s right foot strikes the marching surface after the pivot
(Column Right). Although the command is Column Left (Right), the outside squads (fourth
or first) execute Column Half Left (Right).
The platoon re-forms to the original column formation only from the Halt. The command is
Column of fours to the right (left), MARCH:
 When re-forming into a column of fours without the platoon leader present, the platoon
sergeant remains at their post centered on the platoon. When re-forming into a column of
fours with the platoon leader present, the platoon leader faces as in marching and resumes
their original position in the column. The platoon sergeant follows the rear element and
resumes their post in the formation when the element has halted.
 On the preparatory command, the squad leaders of the base squads command STAND FAST.
The trailing squad leaders command Column Half Right (Left). On the platoon sergeant’s
command of execution MARCH, the base squads stand fast. The trailing squad leaders
execute slightly more than the Column Half Right (Left) simultaneously. As the trailing squad
leaders reach a point (line) that will ensure correct interval on the element to their left (right),
they automatically incline to the left (right). The squad leader nearest the stationary squads
(second or third) commands Mark Time, MARCH and Squads, HALT.

SECTION III – INSPECTIONS
7-55. Inspections at platoon level are typically conducted by the platoon sergeant. If the platoon leader wants
to inspect, they conduct the inspection from their post. For continuity purposes, this section will address the
platoon sergeant’s actions only.

BASIC INFORMATION
7-56. The platoon has one prescribed formation for inspecting personnel and equipment in ranks—the line
formation. When inspecting crew-served weapons and vehicles, the personnel are normally positioned to the
rear of the formation with the operator (gunner) standing by their vehicle (weapon). Typically, the platoons
are inspected by the platoon sergeants; however, they may be inspected by the first sergeant or company
commander.
7-57. The platoon leader or platoon sergeant may conduct an in-quarters (barracks) inspection to include
personal appearance, individual weapons, field equipment, displays, maintenance, and sanitary conditions.
The platoon leader or platoon sergeant will follow local guidelines.
7-58. When field equipment is to be inspected, it should be displayed neatly, organized, and serviceable.
Additional equipment or different models of the equipment should be arranged in a uniform manner
established by the local commander. The squad leaders may carry and use materials to record deficiencies if
the local chain of command authorizes it.

IN-RANKS INSPECTION
7-59. To conduct in-ranks inspections, put the platoon use the following procedures in a line formation, the
platoon sergeant commands Count, OFF. On the command of execution OFF, all personnel except right
flank personnel turn their heads and eyes to the right and the right flank personnel count off with “ONE.”
After the right flank Soldiers have counted their number, the Soldiers to their left count off with the next
higher number and simultaneously turn their heads and eyes to the front. All other members of the formation
count off in the same manner until the entire formation has counted off.

May

TC 3-21.5

7-13

Chapter 7

7-60. After the platoon has counted off, the platoon sergeant commands Open Ranks, MARCH. On the
command of execution MARCH, the front rank takes two steps forward, the second rank takes one step
forward, the third rank stands fast, and the fourth rank takes two steps backward. If additional ranks are
present, the fifth rank takes four steps backward, and the sixth rank takes six steps backward.
Note. After taking the prescribed number of steps, the Soldiers do not raise their arms. If the
platoon leader wants exact interval or alignment, they command At Close Interval (At Double
Interval), Dress Right, DRESS. (See paragraph 7-28 for more information on aligning the
platoon.)
7-61. At this point, the platoon is ready to be inspected. Typically, the squads are inspected by the squad
leaders; however they may be inspected by the platoon sergeant or platoon leader.

SQUAD LEADERS’ INSPECTION
7-62. If the platoon sergeant wants the squad leaders to inspect their squads, they will direct INSPECT
YOUR SQUADS. Salutes are not exchanged.
7-63. The squad leaders face to the half left as in marching and march by the most direct route to a point
15 inches in front of and centered on the first Soldier.
Note. If the members of the platoon are armed, the squad leaders will sling their weapons
diagonally across the back with the muzzle down and to the right. This movement will be executed
without command and prior to the squad leader stepping off.
7-64. The squad leaders remain at a modified Position of Attention moving their heads and eyes only. After
inspecting at the center position, they take a short step forward and to the left and inspects, return to the center
and step forward and to the right and inspect, and return to the center position.
7-65. Having inspected the first Soldier, the squad leader faces to the right as in marching and takes one (two
if at normal interval) step, halts, and faces the next Soldier at the appropriate distance. The squad leader
conducts the inspection for the rest of the Soldiers in the squad.
7-66. After inspecting the last Soldier in the squad, the squad leader faces to the right as in marching and
marches around behind the squad, inclining as necessary. While the squad leader marches back to their post,
they inspect the squad from the rear.
7-67. After resuming their post, the squad leader turns their head and eyes over their left shoulder and
commands their squad to assume At Ease. The platoon sergeant remains at their post (inspects the guidon or
phase bearer as appropriate). After the last squad has been inspected and is at At Ease, the platoon sergeant
commands the platoon to Attention.
7-68. After commanding the platoon to Attention, the platoon sergeant commands Close Ranks, MARCH.
On the command of execution MARCH, the first rank takes four steps backward, the second rank takes two
steps backward, the third rank stands fast, and the fourth rank takes one step forward. On the command of
execution MARCH, the platoon leader and platoon sergeant take the appropriate number of steps to maintain
their posts.
7-69. If the platoon is being inspected as part of a larger formation and control of the platoon has not been
turned over to the platoon sergeant, they face about, and execute At Ease. They then wait on further
instructions from the first sergeant.

PLATOON SERGEANT’S OR PLATOON LEADER’S INSPECTION
7-70. If the platoon sergeant is not going to inspect the entire platoon, they direct the squad leaders of the
appropriate squads to inspect their squads. All others will be inspected by the platoon sergeant. When armed,
the platoon sergeant slings their weapon in the same manner as the squad leaders.

7-14

TC 3-21.5

May

Platoon Drill

7-71. The platoon sergeant faces to the Half Left as in marching and marches by the most direct route to a
point 15 inches in front of and centered on the first squad leader (or the squad leader of the squad to be
inspected). As soon as the platoon sergeant halts in front of the squad leader, they command the other squads
to At Ease and inspect the squad leader.
7-72. The platoon sergeant remains at a modified Position of Attention moving their head and eyes only.
After inspecting at the center position, they take a short step forward and to the left and inspect, return to the
center and step forward and to the right and inspect, and return to the center position.
7-73. Having inspected the squad leader, the platoon sergeant faces to the right as in marching and takes one
(two if at normal interval) steps, halts, and faces the next Soldier at the appropriate distance. After the platoon
sergeant steps off, the squad leader takes a half step forward and faces about. When moving from Soldier to
Soldier, the squad leader and platoon sergeant move simultaneously.
7-74. Having inspected the last Soldier in the squad, the platoon sergeant faces to the right as in marching
and marches around behind the squad, inclining as necessary. The platoon sergeant inspects the squad from
the rear.
7-75. As the platoon sergeant begins to inspect the first squad from the rear, the second squad leader
commands their squad to Attention. The first squad leader returns to their post. After the platoon sergeant
arrives in front of the second squad leader, the platoon sergeant commands the first squad to At Ease over
their right shoulder. All remaining squads will be inspected in the same manner as the first.
7-76. The platoon sergeant and squad leader execute in the same manner as in inspecting the first squad until
the entire platoon has been inspected. After inspecting the rear of the last squad, the platoon sergeant marches
by the most direct route to their post, halts, faces to the left and commands the platoon to Attention.
7-77. After commanding the platoon to Attention, the platoon sergeant commands Close Ranks, MARCH.
On the command of execution MARCH, the first rank takes four steps backward, the second rank takes two
steps backward, the third rank stands fast, and the fourth rank takes one step forward. On the command of
execution MARCH, the platoon leader and platoon sergeant take the appropriate number of steps to maintain
their posts.
7-78. If the platoon is being inspected as part of a larger formation and control of the platoon has been not
been turned over to the platoon sergeant, they face about and execute At Ease. They then await further
instructions from the first sergeant.

IN-QUARTERS (STAND BY) INSPECTION
7-79. When the platoon sergeant wants to conduct an in-quarters inspection, they position the squad members
on line with their equipment or as near it as possible. The squad leader positions themselves in the path of
the inspector at a point near their area of responsibility. At the approach of the inspector, the squad leader
commands, Squad, ATTENTION and reports, “Sergeant, the platoon is prepared for inspection.”
Note. When the situation dictates, the squad leader may report to the inspector outside of the
quarters. A designated individual commands the members to ATTENTION as the inspector
enters the area.
7-80. The squad leader then guides the inspector along a route dictated by the physical arrangement of the
personnel and equipment. Upon entering the area, the highest ranking Soldier present commands AT EASE.
As the inspector approaches each individual or their equipment, the individual automatically assumes the
Position of Attention. When the inspector has moved to the next Soldier, the last Soldier inspected resumes
the position of At Ease. As the inspector begins to exit the area after completing the inspection, CARRY ON
is commanded.

May

TC 3-21.5

7-15

Chapter 7

Note. When inspecting Soldiers’ rooms, Attention is not commanded. The individuals
automatically assume the Position of Attention as the inspector enters the room. The inspector then
commands AT EASE. As the inspector approaches each Soldier, the Soldier assumes the Position
of Attention and resumes At Ease after they have been inspected.

7-16

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 8

Company Drill
“The fundamentals of drill are established daily.... If these maneuvers are all
accurately observed and practiced every day then the army will remain virtually
undefeatable and always awe inspiring….”
Frederick the Great: “History of My Own Times,”
translated to English in 1789

SECTION I – PROCEDURES AND PERSONNEL
8-1. The procedures used and personnel required to conduct company drill are described in this section.

BASIC INFORMATION
8-2. The following bullets discuss basic information that applies to conducting company drill:
 Individual drill movements, manual of arms, and squad and platoon drills are executed as
previously described in chapters 4 through 7 while conducting company drill.
 For the most part, company drill provides the procedures for executing platoon drill in conjunction
with other platoons in the same formation.
 For drill purposes, a company consists of a company headquarters and two or more platoons. The
company headquarters personnel are attached to the platoons to equalize platoon strength without
interfering with the permanent squad organization; however, the commander may form the
headquarters personnel into a separate platoon at either flank of the company. When headquarters
personnel form as a separate element, the senior sergeant serves as the platoon sergeant, and the
company executive officer serves as the platoon leader.
 When in a line or a mass formation, the right platoon serves as the base; when in a column
formation, the lead platoon serves as the base.
 The company may be formed by the commander and the platoon leaders or the first sergeant and
the platoon sergeants. If the commander is not scheduled to receive or inspect the company, the
first sergeant and platoon sergeants remain at their posts and execute company drill from their
posts. For continuity purposes, the term “first sergeant” may be used to denote “commander,” just
as “platoon sergeant” may be used to denote “platoon leader” when the first sergeant and platoon
sergeants are conducting company drill from their posts.
 When the first sergeant directs that the company open or close ranks, align, stack or take arms,
extend march, close on the leading platoon, or prepare for inspection, the movements are executed
on the command of the platoon sergeants and not on the directives of the first sergeant. The platoon
sergeants command the movement in sequence beginning with the base platoon.
 During all drills and ceremonies, the first sergeant and executive officer carry their weapons at
Sling Arms. They remain at Sling Arms during all manual of arms movements except when they
execute the Hand Salute while at Sling Arms.
 The members of a company break ranks in the same manner as in platoon drill except that the
individuals called from the formation form on the first sergeant rather than on the platoon sergeant.
 The company marches, rests, and executes Eyes Right in the same manner as the platoon.
 The company has four prescribed formations: company in line with platoons in line; company in
column with platoons in column; company in column with platoons in line (used primarily for

May

TC 3-21.5

8-1

Chapter 8

ceremonies); and company mass formation. However, the company may be formed into a column
of twos in the same manner as the platoon.

POSTS FOR KEY PERSONNEL
8-3. Key personnel assume their posts as follows:
 Company commander. The company commander’s post is normally 12 steps in front of the front
rank of troops and centered on the company as seen in figure 8-1. The only exceptions to this rule
are when the company forms as part of a larger unit in a column formation (with the company and
platoons in column) or when the company is formed in a mass formation. In these situations, the
company commander’s post is 6 steps in front of and centered on the front rank of troops and 12
steps behind the last rank of troops of the element to their front as seen in figure 8-2 on page 8-5.
 Guidon bearer. The guidon bearer’s post is two 15-inch steps to the rear and two 15-inch steps to
the left of the company commander (see figure 8-1). (The manual of the guidon is discussed in
further detail in appendix F.)

8-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

Figure 8-1. Company in line with platoons in line
Note. The company commander should inconspicuously direct the guidon bearer to remain in
position and move with the commander when the company is to be faced to the right and marched
for only a short distance.




May

Executive officer. When the company is in a line formation, the executive officer’s post is two
steps to the rear of the first sergeant; in a column or a mass formation, they are three steps to the
rear of the last rank and off center (one 15-inch step to the right) of the company.
Platoon leaders. When the company is in a line formation with the platoons in line, the post for
the platoon leader is six steps in front of and centered on the platoon. When the company is in

TC 3-21.5

8-3

Chapter 8







8-4

column formation with the platoons in column or the company is in column with the platoons in
line, the post for the platoon leader is one step in front of and centered on the platoon. When the
company is in mass formation, the post for the platoon leaders is one step in front of and evenly
spaced across the company front. If the commander is not present, the platoon leaders are not part
of the formation.
First sergeant. When the company is in a line formation, the first sergeant’s post is three steps to
the rear of the last rank and centered on the company; in a column or a mass formation, they are
three steps to the rear of the last rank and off center (one 15-inch step to the left) of the company
(see figure 8-2):
 When the company is in mass formation, without the commander present, the post for the first
sergeant is five steps in front of and centered on the formation. When the company is in a line
formation with the platoons in a line without the commander present, the post for the first
sergeant is nine steps in front of and centered on the company. When the company is in a
column formation with the platoons in a column without the commander present, the post for
the first sergeant is nine steps to the left flank of and centered on the company.
 When marching the company in mass formation with the commander at their post, the first
sergeant remains at their post to provide cadence and control.
Platoon sergeant. When the company is in any of the four formations and the officers are present,
the platoon sergeant’s post is one step to the rear and centered on their platoon:
 When the company is in mass formation, the post for the platoon sergeants is one step to the
rear of the company and evenly spaced across the frontage. When the company is in mass
formation, Without the Officers Present, the post for the platoon sergeants is one step in front
of and evenly spaced across the front.
 When the company is in a line formation with the platoons in a line Without the Officers
Present, the post for the platoon sergeant is three steps in front of and centered on their
platoon. When the company is in column formation with the platoons in column Without the
Officers Present, the post for the platoon sergeant is three steps to the left flank of and centered
on their platoon.
 When marching the company Without the Officers Present, and the company is in column
formation with the platoons in column, the platoon sergeants remain at their posts and provide
for cadence and control of their platoons.
Additional officers. Other officers assigned or attached, who have no prescribed position within
the formation, form evenly to the right and left of the executive officer in a line formation; they
fall out and form in one or two ranks at correct distance to the rear of the first sergeant and
executive officer when the company forms in column (see figure 8-4 on page 8-7).

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

Figure 8-2. Company in column with platoons in column
8-4. The executive officer inconspicuously gives the necessary commands (March, Column Half Left, Halt,
and Facings) for themselves and the first sergeant when changing from one post to another. Once in motion,
they incline as necessary and march to their new posts. When the company changes from a line formation to
a column formation, the first sergeant and executive officer face with the company but do not march forward.
They remain in position until the last platoon has passed. If the company marches forward (column formation)
for a short distance only, or if it closes on the base platoon (line formation) at close interval, the first sergeant
and executive officer march forward or face to the right in marching and resume their posts. When the
company changes from a column (platoons in column) to a line formation, it faces to the right in marching
and assumes the posts in line. When the company forms a company in column with platoons in line, as the

May

TC 3-21.5

8-5

Chapter 8

unit is faced, it faces to the right in marching and assumes the posts to the rear of the last platoon. When the
company is formed in mass, it faces to the right in marching and assumes the posts at the center of the
company immediately after halting with the last platoon (see figure 8-3). The off-center position explained
for the first sergeant and executive officer should place them at normal interval from each other while
covering a file to their front. If either one is not present during a formation, the one present changes posts
without command and assumes the post at the center of the company rather than off center (see figure 8-4).

Figure 8-3. Company in mass

8-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

Figure 8-4. Company in column with platoons in line

May

TC 3-21.5

8-7

Chapter 8

SECTION II – FORMATIONS AND MOVEMENTS
8-5. This section discusses the formations and movements used in conducting a company drill.

BASIC INFORMATION
8-6. This paragraph discusses basic information that applies to the formations and movements used in
conducting a company drill:
 The company normally forms in a line formation; however, it may re-form in column when each
Soldier can identify their exact position (equipment grounded) in the formation.
 The company forms basically the same as the platoon. On the command fall in; (At Close Interval),
FALL IN, the platoons form in line, centered on and facing the person forming the unit, with
five-step intervals between platoons.
Note. To have the company assemble in a company mass formation, the command is Mass
Formation, FALL IN. Before giving the commands, the person forming the unit announces the
interval and the number of personnel in the front and designates the base person. In this situation,
the first sergeant and platoon sergeants travel around the right flank of the formation when moving
from post to post. The commander and platoon leaders travel around the left flank of the formation
when moving from post to post.






When armed, members fall in at Order (Sling) Arms. For safety, the person forming the unit
commands Inspection, ARMS; Ready, Port, ARMS; Order (Sling), ARMS at the initial
formation of the day, or when the last command is DISMISSED.
The company may be formed by the first sergeant and platoon sergeants or by the company
commander and platoon leaders. When possible, the platoons assemble near the formation site
before the arrival of the first sergeant or company commander. If the company is formed by the
NCOs, the platoon leaders normally observe the procedures from a position to the rear of their
platoons.
When the company is formed by the NCOs, the following procedures apply:
 The first sergeant posts themselves nine steps in front of (center) and facing the line where
the front rank of each platoon is to form. They then command fall in; (At Close Interval),
FALL IN.
 On the command of execution, the platoons form in the same manner prescribed in platoon
drill. Each platoon sergeant faces their platoon while the platoons are forming and directs
their platoon to adjust (if necessary) and align on the platoon to its right at the correct interval
(as described in paragraph 8-8). Once the platoon is formed, the platoon sergeants face about.

Note. If the command At Close Interval, FALL IN is given, the members of the platoon form at
close interval; however, the five-step interval between platoons is maintained.



8-8

When all platoon sergeants are facing to the front, the first sergeant commands (if appropriate)
Inspection, ARMS; Ready, Port, ARMS; Order (Sling), ARMS. The first sergeant then
directs (if appropriate) RECEIVE THE REPORT. The platoon sergeants face about and
command REPORT. The squad leaders report (as described in chapter 7). Having received
the report, the platoon sergeants face about. When all platoon sergeants are facing to the front,
the first sergeant commands REPORT. The platoon sergeants turn their heads and eyes
toward the first sergeant, salute and report (as described in chapter 7) in succession from right
to left. The first sergeant turns their head and eyes toward the reporting platoon sergeant and
returns each Salute individually. Having received the report from the platoon sergeants, the
first sergeant faces about and awaits the arrival of the company commander if the commander
is scheduled to receive the company.

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

Note. If the commander is not scheduled to receive or inspect the company, the first sergeant and
platoon sergeants remain at their posts and execute company drill from their posts. For continuity
purposes, the term “commander” may also be used to denote the first sergeant, just as “platoon
leader” may be used to denote the platoon sergeant when the commander and platoon leaders are
conducting company drill from their posts.





When the company commander has halted at their post, the first sergeant salutes and reports,
“Sir or Ma’am, all present,” or “Sir or Ma’am, all accounted for,” or “Sir or Ma’am, (so
many) Soldiers absent.” The company commander returns the Salute and commands POST.
The first sergeant faces about and marches to their post three steps to the rear and at the center
of the company, halts, and faces about. The guidon bearer steps forward three steps. The
platoon sergeants face to the right in marching and assume their posts to the rear of their
platoons (if the platoon leader is not present, they step forward three steps). The platoon
leaders march around the left flank of their platoons and assume their posts by inclining facing
to the front. The company executive officer assumes their post two steps to the rear of the first
sergeant.
When the company is formed by the company commander, the procedures are the same as forming
with the NCOs except that the platoon leaders form their platoons and the first sergeant, platoon
sergeants, and guidon bearer fall in at their posts (see figure 8-1 on page 8-3). The command
POST is not necessary. If a platoon sergeant is to fill the post of platoon leader, they take a position
six steps in front of and centered on the platoon.

CHANGING INTERVAL
8-7. The company changes interval in the same manner as prescribed for the platoon:
 When the first sergeant wants the company to obtain close interval in a line formation while
maintaining a five-step interval, they direct CLOSE ON THE BASE PLATOON AT CLOSE
INTERVAL. The platoon sergeants face about and command Count, OFF. After the platoons
have counted off, the platoon sergeants command Close Interval, MARCH. The second, third,
and fourth platoon sergeants command Right, FACE and in succession command Half Step,
MARCH. They halt at the five-step interval and face the platoon to the left. If the directive
CLOSE ON THE THIRD PLATOON AT CLOSE INTERVAL is given, the platoon sergeants
on the right of the designated platoon have their platoons obtain close interval, face their platoons
to the left, march (Half Step) forward until the five-step interval is obtained, and then halt and face
their platoons to the right.
Note. When the company is at close interval (line formation), the first sergeant may march the
company (in column with less than correct distance) at the Half Step for short distances. If the
first sergeant wants to march with a 30-inch step while marching with less than correct distance,
they command Extend, MARCH. The first platoon sergeant commands Extend, MARCH. The
other platoon sergeants command CONTINUE TO MARCH. As the first platoon begins to
march with a 30-inch step, the second platoon sergeant commands Extend, MARCH. The
remaining platoons execute the directive in the same manner as the second platoon.


May

When the first sergeant wants the company to obtain normal interval from close interval in a line
formation while maintaining a five-step interval, they direct EXTEND ON THE BASE
PLATOON AT NORMAL INTERVAL. The platoon sergeants face about and march (Half
Step) their platoons to a position that ensures the five-step interval between platoons after they
have obtained normal interval. After halting and facing the platoons to the left, the platoon
sergeants command Count, OFF. The platoon sergeants then command Normal Interval,
MARCH. If necessary, the platoon sergeant can verify the interval as described in the note of
paragraph 8-8.

TC 3-21.5

8-9

Chapter 8

CHANGING DISTANCE
8-8. To increase the distance between elements of a company (or larger unit) while marching in column to
normal distance, use the following procedures:
Note. This movement is only executed from the half step when a company or larger-size element
is marching in column at less than normal distance.




To increase the distance between elements of a company (or larger unit) while marching in column
at the half step to normal distance, the command is Extend, MARCH. On the preparatory
command Extend of Extend, MARCH, the platoon sergeant echoes the preparatory command
and all subsequent platoon sergeants issue the supplementary command CONTINUE TO
MARCH. On the command of execution MARCH of Extend, MARCH, the front rank of the
lead element takes one more 15-inch step, then steps off with a 30-inch step. All other ranks
continue to march with a 15-inch step until the rank to their front has stepped off with a 30-inch
step and has obtained normal distance (40 inches).
Subsequent platoon sergeants issue the command Extend, MARCH after the entire element to
their front has obtained normal distance and has begun marching forward with a 30-inch step.

Note. From the Halt, the first sergeant directs HAVE YOUR PLATOONS EXTEND MARCH.
The lead platoon sergeant gives the command Extend, MARCH. All subsequent platoon sergeants
give the command Half Step, MARCH. On the command of execution MARCH of Extend,
MARCH, the front rank steps off with a 30-inch step. All other ranks step off with a 15-inch step
and execute the movement in the same manner as previously described in paragraph 8-6.

ALIGNING THE COMPANY
8-9. To align the company, use the following procedures:
 To align the company in a line formation, the first sergeant directs HAVE YOUR PLATOONS
DRESS RIGHT:
 On the directive, all platoon sergeants face about. The right flank platoon sergeant commands
Dress Right, DRESS and aligns their platoon as described in platoon drill. When the
alignment of the first rank of the right platoon has been verified (the platoon sergeant has
stepped off to align the second rank), the platoon sergeant to the left commands Dress Right,
DRESS. They then face to the half right in marching, moves to a position on line with and
one step to the left of the left flank Soldier of the first rank, and face (Left Face) down the
line.
 After aligning the first rank, the platoon sergeant centers themselves on the first rank, faces
to the right in marching, takes two short steps, halts, executes Left Face, and aligns the second
rank. The third and fourth ranks are aligned in the same manner as the second rank.
 After aligning the fourth rank, the platoon sergeant faces to the left in marching; returns to
their position, center of the platoon; halts perpendicular to the formation; faces to the right;
commands Ready, FRONT; and faces about. All platoon sergeants to the left of the second
platoon take the same actions as the second platoon sergeant.
Note. If necessary, the platoon sergeants to the left of the base platoon command VERIFY
INTERVAL before commanding Dress Right, DRESS. On the command VERIFY
INTERVAL, the base (squad leader of the first squad) faces to the right in marching and moves
to the left flank member (first squad) of the platoon to the right, halts, faces about, steps forward
five steps, halts, faces to the right, and aligns themselves on the element to their right.


8-10

To align the company in column, the first sergeant directs HAVE YOUR PLATOONS COVER.
On this directive, the first platoon sergeant faces about and commands COVER. The other platoon

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

sergeants command STAND FAST. The first platoon covers as in platoon drill. The other platoons
then execute the movement in succession as soon as the platoon to their front has completed the
movement.

OPENING AND CLOSING RANKS
8-10. To Open Ranks, the first sergeant directs HAVE YOUR PLATOONS OPEN RANKS AND DRESS
RIGHT. On the directive, all platoon sergeants face about. The right flank platoon sergeant commands Open
Ranks, MARCH. When the platoon has completed the movement, they then command Dress Right, DRESS
and aligns the platoon the same as in platoon drill. When the first rank of the right platoon has been aligned,
the platoon sergeant to the left commands Open Ranks, MARCH and then commands Dress Right, DRESS.
Then they align their platoon in the same manner described in paragraphs 7-28 and 8-8. All platoon sergeants
to the left of the second platoon take the same actions as the second platoon sergeant.
Note. When clearing grounded equipment, the company may march in column (Right FACE)
from open ranks (Double Interval) for short distances. Having cleared the equipment, the first
sergeant commands Normal Interval, MARCH. When returning to the equipment while marching
at normal interval, the command Double Interval, MARCH is given. If the company is marching
in reverse order, the commands FALL OUT and FALL IN should be given.
8-11. To Close Ranks, the first sergeant directs HAVE YOUR PLATOONS CLOSE RANKS. On the
directive, all platoon sergeants face about and in sequence from right to left command Close Ranks,
MARCH. The platoons execute the movement the same as in platoon drill. After the platoons have completed
the movement, the platoon sergeants face about.

CHANGING THE DIRECTION OF MARCH OF A COLUMN
8-12. To change the direction of march of a column, use the following procedures:
 The company changes the direction of march basically the same as the squad and platoon. The
commands are Column Right (Left), Column Half Right (Left), MARCH.
 The base element during a column movement is the lead platoon and the squad on the flank, in the
direction of turn.
 When at the Halt, the leading platoon sergeant repeats the first sergeant’s preparatory command.
Succeeding platoon sergeants give the supplementary command Forward. On the command of
execution MARCH, the leading platoon executes the movement as described in platoon drill;
succeeding platoons execute the movement on their platoon sergeant’s command at approximately
the same location.
 While marching, the movement is executed as described from the Halt except that the succeeding
platoon sergeants give the supplementary command Continue to March rather than Forward.
 The company executes Rear March and inclines in the same manner as the platoon.
 When executing Counter-Column March from the Halt, the leading platoon sergeant repeats the
preparatory command. Succeeding platoon sergeants give the supplementary command Forward:
 On the command of execution MARCH, the leading platoon executes the movement as
described in platoon drill and marches through the other platoons. Succeeding platoons
execute the movement on the platoon sergeant’s command at approximately the same
location.
 When the movement is executed while marching, the command of execution is given as the
left foot strikes the marching surface. The movement is executed basically the same as from
the Halt except that the succeeding platoon sergeants give the supplementary command
Continue to March rather than Forward.

May

TC 3-21.5

8-11

Chapter 8




The guidon bearer faces to the left in marching from the Halt or executes a Column Left in
marching, marches by the most direct route outside of the formation, and repositions
themselves in front of the lead platoon as it clears the rear of the company.
If the first sergeant gives the command from their post in a separate unit, they move in the
most convenient manner to their new position at the left flank of the unit. If they give the
command while at the head of the company, they move in the same direction as the guidon
bearer.

CLOSING THE DISTANCE BETWEEN PLATOONS
8-13. This movement is only executed when the company is in column with the platoons in column. The
formation has been faced to the right for marching with the first sergeant and platoon sergeants at their posts.
8-14. The first sergeant directs CLOSE ON THE LEADING PLATOON. The leading platoon sergeant
commands STAND FAST. The leading platoon sergeant then faces to the left as in marching and marches,
inclining as necessary, to the trail of the company.
8-15. The succeeding platoon’s platoon sergeant marches their platoon forward and commands Mark Time,
MARCH. They ensure that they give the command of execution MARCH when the squad leaders are three
steps from the last Soldier in the leading platoon so that the Soldiers of the succeeding platoon begin marching
in place at the correct distance.
8-16. While Marking Time in formation, the Soldiers adjust position to ensure proper alignment and cover.
The proper distance between Soldiers while marching is one-arm’s length plus 6 inches (approximately
36 inches). If necessary, the squad leaders take the appropriate number of steps to close any gaps should the
trail of the leading platoon be uneven. The rest of the formation adjusts as necessary.
8-17. After sensing that the members of the platoon have obtained proper alignment and cover, the platoon
sergeant commands Platoon, HALT. After commanding the platoon to Halt, the platoon sergeant faces to
the left as in marching and marches, inclining as necessary, to the trail of the company.
8-18. The remaining platoons execute in the same manner as the succeeding platoon in order from front to
rear. The platoon sergeants wait until the platoon sergeant to their front gives the command Mark Time,
MARCH, before giving the command Forward, MARCH.
8-19. The platoon sergeants form at the trail of the company one step to the rear and evenly spaced. The
platoon sergeants are now part of the formation. If the first sergeant wants exact cover and alignment, they
command COVER. The first sergeant remains at their post and marches the company.

CORRECTING THE DISTANCE BETWEEN PLATOONS
8-20. The correct distance between platoons is five steps. To obtain correct distance (five steps) when the
company is marching in column or is in column at the Halt, the first sergeant directs CORRECT ON
LEADING PLATOON.
8-21. When at the Halt, on the directive CORRECT ON LEADING PLATOON, the platoon sergeant of
the leading platoon commands (over the right shoulder) STAND FAST. The succeeding platoon sergeants
command (over the right shoulder) Forward, MARCH and then command Mark Time, MARCH and
Platoon, HALT when correct distance is obtained.
8-22. While marching, on the directive CORRECT ON LEADING PLATOON, the platoon sergeant of
the leading platoon commands (over the right shoulder) Half Step, MARCH. The succeeding platoon
sergeants command (over the right shoulder) CONTINUE TO MARCH, and then command Half Step,
MARCH as soon as the correct distance is obtained.
8-23. The first sergeant commands Forward, MARCH; (HALT) as soon as all platoons have obtained the
correct distance and are marching at the Half Step.

8-12

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

FORMING A COLUMN OF TWOS AND RE-FORMING
8-24. The company forms a column of twos basically the same as the platoon. The first sergeant must allow
sufficient time for the platoon sergeants, and the squad leaders of the lead platoon, to give their supplementary
commands before giving the command of execution.
8-25. The command for this movement is Column of twos from the right (left), MARCH. The leading
platoon sergeant repeats the preparatory command. Other platoon sergeants give the supplementary
command Stand Fast. On the first sergeant’s command of execution MARCH, the leading platoon executes
the movement as in platoon drill. Other platoons execute the movement on their platoon sergeant’s command.
Succeeding platoon sergeants give their commands to follow with the prescribed five-step distance between
platoons.
8-26. Re-forming into a column of fours is executed only at the Halt. The command for this movement is
Column of fours to the left (right), MARCH. On the first sergeant’s command of execution, all platoons
execute the movement simultaneously as described in platoon drill. As soon as the platoons are re-formed,
the platoon sergeants automatically march the platoons forward and obtain the five-step distance between
platoons.

FORMING A COMPANY MASS
8-27. The company may form in mass from a company in column (platoons in column) when halted or while
marching. The company must be at Close Interval (Close Interval, MARCH) before the command Company
Mass Left, MARCH is given.
8-28. On the preparatory command Company Mass Left, given at the Halt, the leading platoon sergeant
commands Stand Fast. The platoon sergeants of the succeeding platoons command Column Half Left. On
the command of execution MARCH, the leading platoon stands fast. The other platoons execute the Column
Half Left and then execute a Column Half Right on the command of the platoon sergeants to a point (line)
that ensures the platoons will be at Close Interval alongside the platoon to their right when halted. As the
platoons come abreast of the base platoon, the platoon sergeants command Mark Time, MARCH. While the
platoon is marking time, the members adjust their positions to ensure alignment on the Soldier to their right.
The platoon sergeants allow their platoons to Mark Time for about eight counts and then command Platoon,
HALT.
8-29. On the preparatory command Company Mass Left while marching, given as the left foot strikes the
marching surface, the leading platoon sergeant gives the supplementary command Mark Time. The
succeeding platoon sergeants command Column Half Left. On the command of execution MARCH, the
leading platoon begins to march in place. After marking time for about eight counts, the lead platoon sergeant
commands Platoon, HALT. The other platoons form in the same manner as from the Halt.
Notes. 1. If the commander is in charge of the formation, on the command of execution MARCH,
the first sergeant and guidon bearer halt and immediately face to the right (left) in marching and
reposition themselves centered on the company.
2. If the platoon sergeants are marching at their posts on the left flank of their platoons, they must
wait until the platoon sergeants to their front have commanded HALT and have moved to the
front of the company before moving into position.

ALIGNING A COMPANY IN MASS
8-30. To align a company in mass, use the following procedures:
 As soon as the company has formed in mass, the first sergeant gives the command Order, ARMS
(if appropriate) and then commands At Close Interval, Dress Right, DRESS.
 On the command of execution DRESS, the platoon sergeant of the right platoon marches by the
most direct route to the right flank and verifies the alignment of as many ranks as necessary to

May

TC 3-21.5

8-13

Chapter 8

ensure proper alignment in the same manner as aligning the platoon. When they have finished the
verification, the platoon sergeant returns to a position one step in front of and centered on the third
squad, halts, and faces to the right. When the platoon sergeant has returned to their position, the
first sergeant commands Ready, FRONT. Platoon sergeants align themselves to the right. The
first sergeant directs the platoon sergeants to move left or right to ensure the platoon sergeants are
evenly spaced across the front.

CHANGING THE DIRECTION OF MARCH OF A MASS FORMATION
8-31. The company changes the direction of march in mass basically the same as a platoon column
movement. This movement is normally executed with the commander at their post. For clarity purposes, the
term “commander” is used:
 When executed from the Halt, the commander has the unit execute Right Shoulder Arms (if
appropriate), then faces in the desired direction of march, turns their head toward the formation,
and commands Right (Left) Turn, MARCH:
 On the command of execution MARCH, the platoon leaders face to the half right (left) in
marching and continue to march in an arc until parallel to the new direction of march. Then
they begin marching with the Half Step, dressing on the right (left) flank platoon leader until
the command Forward, MARCH is given.
 The right (left) guide (the base squad leader in the direction of turn) faces to the right (left) in
marching, takes one 30-inch step in the indicated direction, and then takes up the Half Step.
All other squad leaders (front rank) face to the half right (left) in marching and continue to
march in an arc until they come on line with the guide.
 At this time, they begin marching with the Half Step and dress (glancing out of the corner of
the eye) in the direction of the turn until the command Forward, MARCH is given. On that
command, the dress is automatically to the right. All other members march forward and
execute the movement in the same manner as their squad leaders.
 When executed while marching, the movement is the same as from the Halt except that the
company commander faces about (marching backward) to give the command Right (Left) Turn,
MARCH. The commander then faces about and completes the turning movement themselves.
After the company has completed the turn, they face about, commands Forward, MARCH, and
again faces about.

FORMING A COLUMN FROM A COMPANY MASS
8-32. This movement is normally executed with the commander at their post. For clarity purposes, the term
“commander” is used. To form a company in column from a company mass at the Halt, the command is
Column of Platoons, Right Platoon, Column Right (Column Half Right), MARCH. The right platoon
leader gives the supplementary command of Forward (Column Right or Column Half Right), and the other
platoon leaders command Stand Fast:
 On the command of execution MARCH, the right platoon marches in the direction indicated. All
other platoons follow (in sequence) in column, executing Column Half Right and Column Half
Left on the commands of the platoon leaders.
 To execute the movement when marching, the company commander commands Port, ARMS
(unless at Sling Arms), and then commands Column of Platoons, Right Platoon, Double Time,
MARCH. On the preparatory command, the right platoon leader gives the supplementary
command Double Time, and the other platoon leader gives the supplementary command Continue
to March. On the command of execution MARCH, the right platoon marches in double-time.
Other platoon leaders (in sequence) command Column Half Right, Double Time, MARCH and
Column Half Left, MARCH to bring the succeeding platoons in column with the leading platoon.
 The platoon leader and the platoon sergeant reposition themselves after the supplementary
command but before the command of execution.

8-14

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

FORMING A COMPANY IN COLUMN WITH PLATOONS IN LINE
AND RE-FORMING
8-33. This movement is normally executed with the commander at their post. For clarity purposes, the term
“commander” is used. To form a company in column with platoons in line from a column formation at the
Halt, the command is Column of platoons in line, MARCH. The platoon leader of the leading platoon gives
the supplementary command Stand Fast. The second platoon leader gives the supplementary command
Column Right. All other platoon leaders give the supplementary command Forward:
 On the command of execution MARCH, the leading platoon Stands Fast, and the second platoon
executes a Column Right, marches 12 steps past the right file of the first platoon, and executes a
Column Left. As they come on line with the base platoon, the platoon leader commands Mark
Time, MARCH. After the platoon has marched in place for eight counts, the platoon leader
commands Platoon, HALT. The succeeding platoons execute a Column Right at approximately
the same location as the platoon to their front and execute a Column Left and then halt in the same
manner as the second platoon. When the platoons have halted in position, the company
commander commands Left, FACE. On that command, the platoon leaders and platoon sergeants
face in marching and assume their posts.
 When executed while marching, the movements are basically the same as from the Halt except
that the commander gives the command of execution as the right foot strikes the marching surface.
The leading platoon leader commands Mark Time. On the preparatory command, the second
platoon leader commands Column Right, and the succeeding platoon leaders command Continue
to March. On the command of execution MARCH, the leading platoon executes Mark Time and
marches in place (approximately eight counts) until the platoon leader commands Platoon,
HALT. The other platoons execute the movement in the same manner as from the Halt.
 To re-form in column with platoons in column, the company commander commands Right, Face;
Column of Platoons, Left Platoon, MARCH. On the command Right, Face, the platoon leaders
and platoon sergeants face in marching and resume their posts in column. On the preparatory
command Column of Platoons, Left Platoon, the left platoon leader commands Forward,
(Column Left [Half Left]). All other platoon leaders command Column Half Left. On the
command of execution MARCH, the left platoon executes the movement. The other platoon
leaders give the appropriate commands to follow the lead platoon at the correct distance.
Note. If necessary, the platoons following the second platoon automatically adjust the length of
their step to ensure correct distance from the platoon to their front.

DISMISSING THE COMPANY
8-34. The company is dismissed while at Attention. It is usually dismissed by the first sergeant:
 The first sergeant commands TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR PLATOONS. The platoon sergeants
Salute. The first sergeant returns all Salutes with one Salute. After Salutes are exchanged, the first
sergeant and guidon bearer leave the formation. The platoon sergeants then dismiss their platoons
as in platoon drill.
 When the company is dismissed by the company commander, they command TAKE CHARGE
OF YOUR PLATOONS. The platoon leaders salute. The company commander returns all
Salutes with one Salute. After the Salutes are exchanged, the company commander, guidon bearer,
first sergeant, and executive officer leave the formation:
 The platoon leader(s) faces about and commands PLATOON SERGEANT. The platoon
sergeant faces to the right in marching and marches (inclines) around the squad leader(s),
halts three steps in front of and centered on the platoon leader and faces to the right. Each
platoon leader then directs TAKE CHARGE OF THE PLATOON. Salutes are exchanged.
The platoon leaders leave the formation.
 The platoon sergeants step forward three steps, face about, and dismiss the platoons as in the
platoon drill.

May

TC 3-21.5

8-15

Chapter 8

SECTION III – INSPECTIONS
8-35. This section discusses the procedures used to conduct inspections for a company drill. The two typical
inspections discussed are in-ranks inspections and in-quarters inspections.

BASIC INFORMATION
8-36. The following basic information applies to conducting inspections for a company drill:
 The company has one prescribed formation for inspecting personnel and equipment in ranks—
company in line with platoons in line. When inspecting crew-served weapons and vehicles, the
personnel are normally positioned to the rear of the formation with the operator (gunner) standing
by their vehicle (weapon).
Note. If the commander is not scheduled to receive or inspect the company, the first sergeant and
platoon sergeants remain at their posts and execute company drill from their posts. For continuity
purposes, the term “first sergeant” may also be used to denote the commander, just as “platoon
sergeant” may be used to denote the platoon leader when they are executing drill from their posts.
If the commander is inspecting, they and the platoon leaders execute the same as described below.



The first sergeant may conduct an in-quarters (barracks) inspection to include personal
appearance, individual weapons, field equipment, displays, maintenance, and sanitary conditions.
When field equipment is to be inspected, it should be arranged neatly and as directed by the leader
in charge of the inspection. Lay equipment out in a uniformed manner with all members’
equipment arranged the same.

IN-RANKS INSPECTION (LINE FORMATIONS)
8-37. Use the following procedures to conduct an in-ranks inspection (line formation):
 With the company in a line formation, the first sergeant directs PREPARE FOR INSPECTION.
On that directive, the platoon sergeants face about, open ranks, and align the company as in
paragraphs 8-9 and 8-10. When all platoon sergeants are facing the front, the first sergeant
commands AT EASE.
Note. During the inspection, the guidon bearer, officers, and NCOs not in ranks assume the
position of attention as the inspecting officer approaches their positions and resume the at ease
position after they have been inspected (they do not execute Inspection Arms). The company
commander may direct the first sergeant and executive officer to accompany them during the
inspection. When so directed, the executive officer and first sergeant take a position at normal
interval (close interval if the company is at close interval) to the left of the company commander.


8-16

The first sergeant begins the inspection by stepping forward and inspecting the guidon bearer. The
first sergeant then faces to the half left in marching and proceeds to the right of the line. As they
approach the right flank platoon, the platoon sergeant commands (over their right shoulder)
Platoon, ATTENTION. When the first sergeant has halted directly in front of them, they report,
“First Sergeant, the platoon is prepared for inspection.” (If the commander is inspecting, Salutes
are exchanged.) The first sergeant inspects the platoon sergeant. The first sergeant then directs the
platoon sergeant to lead through the inspection, faces to the half left in marching, and halts directly
in front of the squad leader of the first squad. As the first sergeant faces to the half left in marching,
the platoon sergeant faces to the right in marching, inclines, and halts directly in front of the second
Soldier in the first squad and on line with and at Normal Interval (Close Interval) to the right of
the first sergeant. The other platoon sergeants execute the same actions as the first sergeant
approaches their platoons.

TC 3-21.5

May

Company Drill

Note. As soon as the platoon sergeant and first sergeant have halted in front of the first two
Soldiers, the platoon sergeant commands Second, Third, and Fourth Squads, AT EASE. When
moving from Soldier to Soldier during the inspection, the first sergeant and platoon sergeant
(executive officer and first sergeant if the commander is inspecting) simultaneously face to the
right in marching, take two short steps (one step if the company is at close interval), halt, and face
to the left. After the first sergeant has inspected the last Soldier in the front rank, the platoon
sergeant hesitates momentarily and allows the first sergeant to precede them as the first sergeant
inspects the front rank from the rear. As the first sergeant begins to inspect the rear of each rank,
the platoon sergeant commands the next squad to Attention. As they begin to inspect the next rank,
the platoon sergeant commands the last rank inspected to stand At Ease. Normally, when
inspecting the rear of each rank, the first sergeant conducts a walking inspection. As the first
sergeant inspects the rear of the last Soldier in each rank, they turn and halt directly in front of the
squad leader of the next rank. The platoon sergeant turns and halts directly in front of the second
Soldier. If the commander is inspecting, the executive officer and first sergeant march past
(behind) the company commander and assume their positions to the commander’s left.


As the first sergeant halts and is directly in front of and facing the individual being inspected, the
individual executes Inspection Arms. If the first sergeant wants to inspect the individual’s weapon,
they inspect the weapon first, then the individual’s uniform and appearance. As soon as the first
sergeant grasps the weapon, the individual releases the weapon and resumes the Position of
Attention. When the first sergeant has finished inspecting the weapon, they return it in the same
manner as it was received. The individual receives the weapon by grasping the center of the
handguard just forward of the slip ring with the left hand and the small of the stock with the right
hand. They then execute Ready, Port Arms; Order Arms.

Note. In the event the first sergeant does not want to inspect the weapon, the individual remains
at Inspection Arms until the first sergeant has halted in front of and is facing the next Soldier. The
individual then executes Ready, Port Arms, and Order Arms. As the first sergeant moves to the
rear of the rank being inspected, each Soldier, as the first sergeant approaches, unfastens the snap
of their scabbard, grasps the point of the scabbard with the left hand, and moves the point slightly
forward. The scabbard is held in position until the bayonet has been replaced or, if the bayonet is
not inspected, until the first sergeant has moved to the next Soldier. At that time, the securing
straps are fastened and the Position of Attention is resumed.


May

The correct method of manipulating a rifle for inspection is as follows:
 When receiving the rifle from the inspected individual, reach forward and grasp the rifle at
the upper portion of the handguard with the right hand. Lower the rifle diagonally to the left,
twist the rifle slightly, insert the tip of the little finger of the left hand into the ejection port
(do not twist the rifle but insert the thumb into the receiver of the M14-series rifle), and look
into the barrel. The finger reflects sufficient light for the inspection of the barrel.
 Grasp the small of the stock with the left hand and raise the rifle to a horizontal position
(sights up) with the muzzle to the right. The rifle is centered on the body with the forearms
horizontal and the palms up. Move the rifle horizontally to the left and inspect the upper
portion of the rifle beginning with the flash suppressor. Move the rifle slowly to the right
inspecting the butt. Return the rifle to the center of the body.
 Keeping the rifle horizontal, rotate it 180 degrees (sights toward the body) so that the sights
point toward the marching surface. Move the rifle horizontally to the left and inspect the
muzzle. Move the rifle slowly to the right and inspect the butt. When moving the rifle across
the body, twist the rifle as necessary and inspect the movable parts on the sides of the receiver.
Having completed the inspection of the lower parts of the rifle, return it to the center of the
body.
 Keeping the rifle horizontal, rotate the rifle 180 degrees (sights away from the body) so that
the sights are up. Release the left hand and return the rifle in the same manner as received.

TC 3-21.5

8-17

Chapter 8






When inspecting a weapon other than a rifle, the inspector receives the weapon with their
right hand and inspects it in the most convenient manner. Having completed the inspection,
the weapon is returned with the right hand in the same manner as received.
When the first sergeant has completed the inspection of the platoon, the platoon sergeant
commands the platoon to Attention and overtakes the first sergeant en route back to the front of
the platoon. The platoon sergeant halts at their post facing to the front (Salutes are exchanged if
the commander is inspecting). The first sergeant (or commander with or without the inspecting
party) faces to the right in marching and moves to the next platoon. As soon as the first sergeant
has cleared the first platoon, the platoon sergeant faces about, commands Close Ranks, MARCH
and AT EASE, and then faces about and executes At Ease. When the first sergeant has completed
the inspection of the last platoon (exchanged Salutes with the platoon sergeant), they return to
their post at the center of the company and commands the company to Attention. They then dismiss
the company, as previously described in paragraph 8-32.
When the company is inspected by an officer of a higher command, on the approach of the
inspecting officer, the company commander commands Company, ATTENTION. They then face
about, salute, and report, “Sir or Ma’am, the company is prepared for inspection.” The inspection
is conducted as previously described in paragraph 8-37, except that the company commander takes
a position immediately to the left of the inspecting officer. The inspection is terminated by the
company commander in the same manner prescribed for a platoon sergeant.

IN-QUARTERS INSPECTION (STAND BY)
8-38. When the first sergeant wants to conduct an in-quarters inspection, the members are positioned on line
with their equipment (or as near it as possible) :
 The platoon sergeant positions themselves in the path of the inspecting officer at a point near their
area of responsibility. At the approach of the inspecting officer, the platoon sergeant commands
Platoon, ATTENTION, salutes, and reports, “Sir, the platoon is prepared for inspection.”
Note. When the situation dictates, the platoon sergeant may report to the inspecting officer outside
of the quarters. A designated individual commands the members to Attention as the inspector
enters the quarters (bay).


The platoon sergeant then guides the inspector along a route dictated by the physical arrangement
of the personnel and equipment. Upon entering the area, the highest ranking Soldier present
commands AT EASE. As the inspector approaches each individual or their equipment, the
individual automatically assumes the Position of Attention. When the inspector has moved to the
next Soldier, the last Soldier inspected resumes the position of At Ease. As the inspector begins to
exit the area after completing the inspection, CARRY ON is commanded.

Note. When inspecting Soldiers’ rooms, Attention is not commanded. The individuals
automatically assume the Position of Attention as the inspector enters the room. The inspector then
commands AT EASE. As the inspector approaches each Soldier, the Soldier assumes the Position
of Attention and resumes At Ease after they have been inspected.

8-18

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 9

Battalion and Brigade Drill
“The exterior splendor, the regularity of movements, the adroitness and at the same
time firmness of the mass—all this gives the individual Soldier the safe and calming
conviction that nothing can withstand his particular regiment or battalion.”
Colmar von der Goltz, 1843-1916 Rossback und Jena
For the most part, battalion and brigade drill merely provides the procedures for
executing company or battalion drill in conjunction with other companies or battalions
in the same formation.
For drill purposes, a battalion or brigade consists of a headquarters (staff), Colors, and
two or more companies or battalions. The right flank unit serves as base when in a line
formation; the leading element is the base when in column.
Note. Executive officers, first sergeants, and platoon sergeants form the same as in-company drill
for all formations, unless otherwise specified.

SECTION I – BATTALION FORMATIONS
9-1. The battalion has two basic formations—a line and a column. Separate elements may be arranged in
several variations within either formation: the battalion may be formed in line with the companies in line
with platoons in line, or battalion in line with companies in column with platoons in line (see figure 9-1 on
page 9-2). From those formations, the battalion may be positioned in a battalion in column with companies
in column, or companies in mass, or companies in column with platoons in line (see figure 9-2 on page 9-3).

May

TC 3-21.5

9-1

Chapter 9

Figure 9-1. Battalion in line with companies in line or mass

9-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Battalion and Brigade Drill

Figure 9-2. Battalion in column with companies in column or mass


May

Forming the battalion. To facilitate the forming of a larger unit, the commander normally alerts
the component units as to the desired formation, time, place, route, uniform, and the sequence in
which the units will form. Unless the right guide’s position at the formation site has been
previously marked, the guides report to the site and receive instructions before the arrival of the
troops:
 The commissioned staff forms in one rank, at normal interval and centered on the commander.
Staff members are normally arranged in their numerical order from right to left. When enlisted
staff personnel form as part of the officer staff, they form two steps to the rear of their

TC 3-21.5

9-3

Chapter 9



respective staff officer. The command sergeant major (CSM) forms one step to the rear and
is centered on the Colors.
When the battalion participates as a separate element of a larger formation, or when space is
limited, it is normally formed in a mass formation in the same manner as forming a company
mass (see figure 9-3).

Figure 9-3. Battalion in mass formation



9-4

The adjutant is responsible for the formation of troops. They take a position at the right flank
of the line on which the units are to form and faces down the line. The adjutant remains facing
down the line until all units are formed and then marches to their post midway between the
line of troops and the proposed position of the commander. As the commander and their staff

TC 3-21.5

May

Battalion and Brigade Drill

approach, the adjutant commands (directs) the units to ATTENTION, faces the commander,
salutes, and reports, “Sir or Ma’am, the battalion is formed.”
Note. If guides are used, the adjutant takes their post as soon as the guides have been aligned.





The commander returns the Salute and commands POST. The adjutant marches forward,
passes to the commander’s right, and takes their post as the right flank staff officer. The
commander then commands or directs such actions as they desire.
 Normally, the Colors are positioned at the center of the battalion when formed in line or
column, and four steps to the rear of the staff when formed in mass.
Dismissing the battalion. To dismiss the battalion, the commander commands TAKE CHARGE
OF YOUR UNITS. The company commanders and battalion commander exchange Salutes. The
battalion commander returns all Salutes with one Salute. They then dismiss their staff.

Note. In a battalion mass formation, the platoon leaders form as the first rank of troops. The right
flank platoon leader serves as the guide.


Inspecting the battalion. When the battalion is to be inspected, the adjutant forms the battalion in
line with companies in line and platoons in line:
 The adjutant forms the troops, reports, and takes their position with the staff (as previously
described in paragraph 9-1). When the adjutant has joined the staff, the battalion commander
directs PREPARE FOR INSPECTION. Unit commanders face about and give the same
directive. The platoon leaders prepare their platoons for inspection in the same manner as in
company drill. When all of the platoons in each company have completed opening ranks and
have dressed right, the company commander faces the battalion commander. When all
company commanders are again facing them, the battalion commander commands AT EASE.

Note. Because of the time involved in inspecting a battalion, the commander normally directs their
staff to inspect the companies while they inspect the Colors and make a general inspection of the
battalion. The Color guards do not execute Inspection Arms.







May

As the battalion commander (or their designated staff officer) approaches the company, the
company commander faces about, salutes, and reports, “Sir or Ma’am, ______ Company is
prepared for inspection.” The inspecting officer then proceeds to the first platoon to be
inspected. The company commander takes a position to the left of the inspecting officer. The
platoons are inspected in the same manner as explained in company drill. In the event a
platoon has already been inspected by a staff officer or is waiting to be inspected by a staff
officer and the battalion commander approaches, the battalion commander is invited to inspect
the platoon.
When the inspection has been completed and the battalion commander is en route back to
their post, the company commanders bring their units to ATTENTION, CLOSE RANKS,
and AT EASE. When the battalion commander has returned to the front of the formation and
all staff officers have completed their inspection, the battalion commander commands
Battalion, ATTENTION and dismisses the battalion (as previously described).
If the battalion is being inspected by a higher commander and their staff, the battalion
commander reports to the inspecting officer in the same manner as the company commanders.
The battalion commander’s staff takes a position to the left of the higher inspecting staff and
escorts them to the unit. The battalion commander escorts the higher commander.

TC 3-21.5

9-5

Chapter 9

SECTION II – BRIGADE FORMATIONS
9-2. The brigade, like the battalion, has two basic formations—a line and a column. The battalions may be
arranged in several variations within either formation: the brigade may be formed with battalions in mass, or
battalions in line with companies in mass. From those formations, the brigade may be positioned in column
with battalions in mass, companies in mass, or battalions in column with companies in column. The formation
selected is normally dictated by the space available and the desires of the commander (see figure 9-4).

Figure 9-4. Brigade in line with battalions in mass



9-6

The brigade is formed and dismissed in the same manner as the battalion.
Normally, the brigade Color is positioned at the center of the brigade. Subordinate Color-bearing
organizations position their Colors to the center of their formation when in a line or column
formation, or four steps to the rear of their staff when in a mass formation (see figure 9-5).

TC 3-21.5

May

Battalion and Brigade Drill

Figure 9-5. Brigade in column

May

TC 3-21.5

9-7

This page intentionally left blank.

PART TWO

CEREMONIES
“A ceremonial parade, impeccably performed, can never fail to be a source of
inspiration to those who watch it or take part in it. It is the noblest and proudest form
of drill. Based on the ‘blunt whetstone’ of drill instruction to recruits it was for many
hundreds of years the foundation of battle discipline in all Armies…”
“Today, once the elements of discipline have been instilled through drill on the parade
square, it develops, naturally, into various forms of crew drill, gun drill, and battle drill
but the aim of discipline remains unchanged. This aim is the conquest of fear. Drill
helps to achieve this because when it is carried out Soldiers tend to lose their
individuality and are unified into a group under obedience to orders.”
“If Soldiers are to give their best in war they must be united. Discipline seeks through
drill to instill into all ranks this sense of unity, by requiring them to obey orders as one.
A Ceremonial parade, moreover, provides an occasion for Soldiers to express pride in
their performance, pride in the Regiment or Corps and pride in the profession of Arms.”
General Sir Harold Alexander, Ceremonial for the
Army Ministry for Defense, Army Department
November 1968
Note. See appendix G for a checklist for conducting a successful ceremony.

Chapter 10

Reviews
This chapter discusses the general history of the review and the different types of
reviews used in the Army today.

SECTION I – HISTORY
10-1. Reviews can be traced to the Middle Ages when rulers, as a way of showing their strength, were likely
to have military ceremonies. Military ceremonies and reviews are a popular tradition which carries on today
in military forces around the world.
10-2. In the American Army, reviews were originally outlined in Baron Friedrich von Steuben’s Blue Book
and practiced by revolutionary Soldiers. A review consisted of four stages: a formation of troops, presentation

May

TC 3-21.5

10-1

Chapter 10

and honors, inspection, and a march in review. Today’s reviews have incorporated three additional stages:
honors to the Nation, remarks, and a conclusion. The presence of the band represents the significant role that
the drum, fife, and other musical instruments have played throughout military history for signaling in camp
or on the battlefield. The presence of the Colors at the center of the formation represents their presence at the
forefront of the unit during the heat of battle.
10-3. At the beginning of the 17th century, armies throughout the world were adopting the regimental system.
Regiments were assigned a specific Color or number for ease of identification and position on the battlefield.
In battle, the Color (or flag) party marched at the front and center of its unit as a point for the unit to dress
on. By leading the unit in battle, the Colors became prime targets, as victories in those days were expressed
in terms of the number of enemy Colors captured; consequently, the Color party bore the brunt of the battle
and suffered heavy casualties. Historically, in the American Army, the Colors have been placed in the center
of the formation and have been considered part of the company on the immediate right of the Colors. This
company is still called the Color unit:
 In Infantry regulations of 1812, the lineup of companies from right to left was determined by the
seniority of the company commander, with the senior on the right. The manual for U.S. Infantry
tactics in 1862 placed the senior commander on the right and the second senior on the left with the
other eight companies in between. After they were lined up, the companies were then numbered
first through tenth from right to left. In the Infantry drill regulations of 1892, companies continued
to be aligned by seniority. Between 1910 and 1970, companies were designated by letters of the
alphabet and lined up from right to left: headquarters company, rifle companies in alphabetical
order, and then any combat support companies. The Colors, however, remained posted in the
center of the formation.
 Musical elements (usually drums and fifes, and sometimes a band) were used during actual battle
and marched 12 to 15 paces to the rear of the formation. By 1892, the Infantry drill regulations
posted bands and field music on the right of the formation or at the head of the formation when it
moved in column.
10-4. Honors appears to have originated as musical fanfare and later a gun salute was added. The
combination of the two now constitute military honors:
 The custom of announcing the arrival of royalty and heads of state with a fanfare of trumpets or
drum rolls had its origin in England. It is ironic that drum Ruffles and the two-note bugle call
Flourishes, used in this manner today, have all but disappeared in the British Commonwealth
while the tradition is still carried on in the United States.
 The colonists brought many of the military customs of their mother country with them when they
came to America. At the time of the French-Indian Wars, Soldiers were instructed to “rest (present
arms) and beat two ruffles” for the Royal Governor of Virginia. In 1776, officers of the
Continental Army were advised that “the adjutant is to order a drum and fife to give two ruffles
to a major general and one to a brigadier.”
 When Baron von Steuben wrote his manual of discipline, he stated that there were to be “certain
ruffles” for generals. It is interesting to note that General George Washington was not accorded
ruffles. Instead, his arrival was announced by a march—more than likely “Washington’s
March”—that is still played today. In time, this custom was extended to include governors of
sovereign states and visiting foreign dignitaries.
 Ruffles were not considered elegant and were used exclusively by the military. In some cases they
were even accorded to the officer of the day.
 It was some time before trumpets were added to the drum rolls; it is believed they were also used
during the War of 1812. Honors for dignitaries were modified to include a flourish of trumpets
called the “Three Cheers.” It is likely that this particular salute evolved into the “Ruffles and
Flourishes” as they are played today.
 Navy records indicate that the regulations of 1876 stipulated there would be a ruffle of drums to
announce the President’s arrival but made no mention of the trumpet flourishes. A later regulation
(1893) stated that the chief executive would receive four “Ruffles and Flourishes.”
 Gun salutes may be traced back to a period when it took a long time to reload guns. By firing all
its guns at once, the battery or fort was left defenseless. The number of guns fired as a salute to

10-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

honor a U.S. President was not established until 1841. Before that, presidential honors included
one gun for every state. It reached at least 24 guns before it was decided that any more guns would
be unrealistic and the number of 21 was adopted in 1841. In 1875, the United States adopted
21 guns for the international salute and that number is currently used as honors for all dignitaries
of rank equivalent to the President.

SECTION II – TYPES OF REVIEWS
10-5. A review is a military ceremony used to—
 Honor a visiting, high-ranking commander, official, or dignitary, and/or permit them to observe
the state of training of a command.
 Present decorations and awards.
 Honor or recognize unit or individual achievements.
 Commemorate events.
10-6. Normally, a review is conducted with a battalion or larger troop unit; however, a composite or
representative element consisting of two or more platoons may serve the same purpose. A review consists of
the following steps in sequence:
 Formation of troops.
 Presentation of command and honors (although primarily a characteristic of a parade, “sound off”
may be included here to enhance the ceremony).
 Inspection. (The inspection stage may be omitted for decorations, awards, or individual
recognition ceremonies.)
 Honors to the Nation.
 Remarks.
 March in review.
 Conclusion.
Note. If retreat is conducted as part of the review, it occurs after presentation of the command and
honors and before the inspection. Honors to the Nation is omitted.
10-7. Other ceremonial activities, or combinations thereof, that may be incorporated within the framework
of a review are reviews with—
 Decorations, awards, and individual retirement.
 Change of command, activation, or inactivation of units.
 Retreat.
 Retreat and retirement, decorations, and awards.
 Retreat and change of command, activation, or inactivation of units.
Note. Review with change of command should not be combined with an awards ceremony.
Awarding a decoration to an outgoing command is accomplished separately from, and preferably
before, a review at which the responsibility of command is transferred.
10-8. In order that a commander may review their own command or accompany a visiting reviewing officer,
they normally designate an officer of their command as commanding officer of troops (known as COT). The
COT is responsible for the preparation of the troops for the review.

May

TC 3-21.5

10-3

Chapter 10

10-9. The ready line and final line on which the units are to form and the route of march are marked or
designated before beginning the ceremony (see figure 10-1 on page 10-4):
 The primary function of the ready line is to enable the unit commander to arrange their unit into
the prescribed formation before movement to the final line. The ready line is to the rear of the final
line. Flags or appropriate markings are used to designate the post of the reviewing officer and the
points where Eyes, RIGHT and Ready, FRONT are to be commanded (6 steps to the reviewing
officer’s right and left and from 6 to 20 steps in front of the reviewing officer).
 Commanders should determine the length of their formation (steps) so that they know how far
beyond the ready front marker (six steps beyond the reviewing officer) they command Ready,
FRONT. This ensures that the last members of their unit are six steps beyond the reviewing officer
when the command is given.
 The command Eyes is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface, and the command of
execution RIGHT is given the next time the right foot strikes the marching surface. The
commands Ready and FRONT are given as the left foot strikes the marching surface.
Note. These commands are given when the commander reaches the guide marker. The guide
marker is placed so that when the commander reaches it, the last element of their unit is abreast of
the ready front marker.

10-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

Figure 10-1. Preparation for review
Note. The ready front marker is always six steps to the right of the reviewing officer. The
commander uses this point to estimate the placement of the guide marker. The guide marker is
used as a visual reference to the commander so that when the commander gives the command of
execution FRONT of Ready, FRONT, the last members of the unit are at the ready front marker.
10-10. Any of the formations described for the battalion or brigade may be used; however, the two
recommended formations for conducting reviews are: battalion in line with companies in mass (see
figure 10-2), or brigade in line with battalions in mass (see figure 10-3 on page 10-6).
Note. When desired or more appropriate, commands may be substituted for directives. When
desired or appropriate, the formation may perform mounted using the mounted drill outlined in
appendix H.

May

TC 3-21.5

10-5

Chapter 10

Figure 10-2. Battalion in line with companies in mass

Figure 10-3. Brigade in line with battalions in mass
10-11. The formation selected is determined by space available and other desires of the commander.
Commanders may alter the formation or prescribed distances to meet local situations. Each unit should be
sized uniformly with the tallest Soldier in front and on the right. Commanders should not cause the leaders
to change positions because of their size. Officers and key NCOs, including squad leaders and others
equivalent by virtue of their rank and time in service, should participate in their deserved positions of dignity.

10-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

10-12. If possible, the reviewing officer should arrive at their post (see figure 10-4) after the staff of the
COT has reversed and the COT has faced the reviewing stand. Upon arrival, the reviewing officer should
immediately take their post and refrain from greeting distinguished spectators until after the review has
terminated.
Note. In battalion mass formation, the platoon leaders form as the first rank of troops. The right
flank platoon leader serves as the guide.
10-13. The reviewing officer, host or host commander, and distinguished persons invited to attend the
review (but not themselves receiving the review), take positions facing the troops. Observe figure 10-4 to see
where distinguished guests and their flags are placed when participating in a review.

Figure 10-4. Reviewing party
10-14. When a ceremony is conducted for an individual junior in rank to the host or host commander, the
junior takes a position to the left of the host or host commander unless the commander yields the post of
honor to them. In all cases, the honor position is the position on the right and is the reviewing officer’s post.
The host or host commander gives the appropriate directive, PRESENT THE COMMAND and PASS IN
REVIEW, during the conduct of the review.
10-15. When a civilian or foreign dignitary receives the review, they take the honor position to the right of
the host. The host or host commander returns all Salutes when, in their judgment, it would be more
appropriate. As a courtesy, the host or host commander should cue the dignitary and inconspicuously explain
the procedures during the conduct of the ceremony. The position in which the flags are displayed at the rear
of the reviewing party corresponds to the position taken by the individual in the front rank of the reviewing
party. An officer from the local staff is designated to escort and brief members of the reviewing party and
show them their positions.
10-16. When a ceremony is conducted honoring a foreign official or dignitary entitled to honors, equivalent
honors (Salutes) are rendered in the manner prescribed in AR 600-25. When the ceremony includes
decorations, awards, or retirements, the host or host commander should be senior in rank or position to the
highest ranking individual being honored.
Note. If the honors of dignitaries include their nation’s anthem, the honors are played in the
following order: four “Ruffles and Flourishes,” the foreign anthem, an approximate 3-second drum
roll, and the U.S. national anthem.

May

TC 3-21.5

10-7

Chapter 10

10-17. Since all situations or eventualities relative to various services or units (military academies, special
honor guard, active Army units, Reserve Components [RCs], Reserve Officer Training Corps, and training
centers) cannot be foreseen, commanders may make minor changes to stated procedures. However, with a
view toward preserving Army tradition and maintaining consistency, they should not alter or modify the
sequence of events other than stated.
Note. Ceremonies may be conducted with sabers and swords. See appendix E for the manual of
arms for these weapons.

SECTION III – SEQUENCE OF EVENTS AND INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS
10-18. The sequence of events in conducting a review and the individual actions that take place are
described herein.

FORMATION OF TROOPS
10-19. Units are moved to their positions on the ready line in the most convenient manner. For a large
review, the COT prescribes the routes, sequence, and time of arrival on the ready line:
Note. If the ready line is not used, the units form on the final line. They are aligned and given the
command Parade, REST. To alert the units that the ceremony is to begin, the adjutant (from their
position near the band) directs SOUND ATTENTION. The band immediately sounds Attention.
Unit commanders immediately face about and command their units (in sequence from right to left)
to ATTENTION and then face about. When the last unit is at Attention, the adjutant directs
SOUND ADJUTANT’S CALL. The band immediately sounds Adjutant’s Call. The adjutant then
moves to their post midway between the line of troops and the designated post of the COT and
faces the COT. When the adjutant has halted at their post, the COT marches their staff to their post
midway between the line of troops and the reviewing officer’s post. The ceremony then continues
as prescribed in this paragraph.










10-8

In motorized and mechanized units, occupants of vehicles form dismounted in a formation
corresponding to that of the other units. Their vehicles remain to the rear of the formation.
The band takes its position on the final line 12 steps to the right of the right flank unit’s marker.
The adjutant’s initial post is three steps to the left of the band. After verification that all units are
positioned on the ready line, the adjutant faces down the final line and over their right shoulder
directs the band to SOUND ATTENTION.
The band sounds Attention, pauses, and waits for the directive to SOUND ADJUTANT’S CALL.
Upon hearing ATTENTION, unit commanders Face About, bring their units to Attention and Right
Shoulder Arms, when appropriate, and face to the front. (Supplementary commands are not given
in mass formations.)
When all units are at Attention, the adjutant directs SOUND ADJUTANT’S CALL.
The band sounds Adjutant’s Call, and (without pause) begins playing a march. It continues until
the last unit halts on the final line.
Immediately after Adjutant’s Call, the following events take place simultaneously:
 All unit commanders immediately command GUIDE ON LINE. The guide of each unit
double-times (Port Arms) to their position on the final line of markers, halts with their right
foot on the marker, executes Order Arms, and then faces to the right.
 The adjutant aligns the guides (if necessary) and immediately marches to a position centered
on the command and halfway between the post of the COT and the final line. They halt and
face to the left, facing the line of troops.
 As soon as the guides are on line, the unit commanders (in sequence from right to left)
command Forward, MARCH. As they approach the positions of the guides, commanders

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

command Mark Time, MARCH so that the rank of squad leaders begins to Mark Time and
is on line with the left shoulder of the guide. The commander allows the unit to Mark Time
for about eight counts and then commands Company (Battalion), HALT. On the command
of execution HALT, the guide executes left face, which places their right foot on the marker.
If the unit is at Right Shoulder Arms, the unit commanders command Order, ARMS. The unit
is then aligned by the command At close interval, Dress Right, DRESS. At the command of
execution DRESS, the platoon leader of the right platoon moves by the most direct route to
the right flank and verifies the alignment of as many ranks as necessary to ensure proper
alignment. When they have completed verification, they return to a position directly in front
of their third squad leader, halt parallel to the formation, and face to the right. Other platoon
leaders, on the command of execution DRESS, position themselves directly in line with their
third squad by executing one (15-inch) step to the right. The commander then commands
Ready, FRONT and, immediately, Parade, REST. They face about and assume Parade Rest.
For larger reviews, the command AT EASE may be substituted for PARADE REST
throughout the ceremony.
Note. If a ceremony is conducted with a company formed in line with platoons in column, the
commands COVER and RE-COVER are given to align the platoons.










May

When all units are on the final line and are at Parade Rest, the adjutant directs BRING YOUR
UNITS TO ATTENTION.
Unit commanders face about and (in sequence starting with the right flank unit) command
Company (Battalion), ATTENTION. For larger formations, the commands may start with the
center or right center unit, working toward both flanks. The unit commander then faces about.
When all units are at Attention, the adjutant faces about. That is the signal for the COT and their
staff to move from their positions near the reviewing stand to their posts midway between the line
of troops and the reviewing stand and face the line of troops.
When the COT has halted at their post, the adjutant faces about and directs BRING YOUR
UNITS TO PRESENT ARMS.
Unit commanders face about and in sequence command Present, ARMS. They then face about
and Salute.
After all units are at Present Arms, the adjutant faces about, Salutes, and reports, “Sir or Ma’am,
the command is formed.”
The COT returns the salute of the adjutant and directs TAKE YOUR POST. (The members of
the staff do not salute.) The adjutant takes their post by facing to the half left in marching, marches
forward, halts at normal interval to the right of the right flank staff member and faces about. When
the adjutant is in position, the COT directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ORDER ARMS. Unit
commanders terminate their Salutes; face about; command Order, ARMS; and then face about.
When all units are at Order Arms, the left flank staff officer commands Right, FACE; Forward,
MARCH; Column Left, MARCH; Column Left, MARCH; Staff, HALT; and Left, FACE. At
that time, the staff should be centered on, and two steps in front of, the COT (see figure 10-5 on
page 10-10).

TC 3-21.5

10-9

Chapter 10

Figure 10-5. Movement of the staff to the rear of the commanding officer of troops


When the units have completed Order Arms and the staff has reversed, the COT then faces the
reviewing stand and waits for the reviewing officer to take their post. If, for some reason, the
reviewing officer has been delayed, or if a delay is prearranged, the COT directs the units to
Parade, REST and then directs them to ATTENTION before the reviewing officer’s arrival.

PRESENTATION AND HONORS DURING A REVIEW
10-20. Use the following procedures to execute presentation and honors during a review:
 When the reviewing officer has halted at their post, the COT faces about and directs BRING
YOUR UNITS TO PRESENT ARMS. Unit commanders face about; command Present,
ARMS; face to the front; and Salute. When the units have completed this movement, the COT
faces about and commands their staff and themselves to Present, ARMS.
Notes. 1. If the reviewing officer is entitled to honors (see AR 600-25), the COT should verify
that the salute battery (executive officer’s right arm is raised) and the band (bandmaster’s arms
are at the ready-play position) are prepared to render honors before the commander faces the
reviewing officer. The Salute of the COT is the signal for the band and salute battery to render
honors. The reviewing party, and all military personnel within sight or hearing, salute on the first
note of the music and terminate their Salute when honors have been completed.
2. If the reviewing officer is not entitled to honors, only the reviewing officer returns the salute of
the COT.

10-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

3. During a review, Salutes (honors) are directed to the reviewing officer’s post. In some reviews,
it is appropriate for a person (colonel) not entitled honors to participate as the reviewing officer,
and a person (general) entitled honors to participate as host or distinguished guest. In that situation,
honors (ruffles and flourishes and cannon salute) are not appropriate.





Upon completion of the presentation and/or honors, the COT commands their staff to Order,
ARMS; faces about; and directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ORDER ARMS AND PARADE
REST.
Unit commanders terminate their salutes, face about, and command Order, ARMS and Parade,
REST. They then face to the front and execute Parade Rest.
When all troops are at Parade Rest, the COT faces about. The commander and their staff remain
at Attention.

Note. When scheduled, retreat is integrated into the review at this point. Procedures are outlined
in paragraph 10-43.

INSPECTION
10-21. Use the following procedures to conduct an inspection during a review:
Note. The inspection may be omitted for decorations, awards, or retirement ceremonies.












May

When the COT has faced the reviewing stand, the reviewing officer and the host or host
commander move forward and halt three steps in front of the COT. Staffs, aides-de-camp, flag
bearers, and orderlies do not normally accompany the inspecting party.
The COT salutes and reports “Sir or Ma’am, the command is prepared for inspection.” The band
begins to play marching music on the Salute of the COT and continues to play until the reviewing
officer has returned to their post.
The COT guides the reviewing party to the right flank of the band. The COT and the host or host
commander march to the right of the reviewing officer. Whether marching or riding, the reviewing
party passes between the line of brigade commanders and staffs, battalion commanders, and
company commanders in division or similar-size reviews. In reviews for a battalion, or units of
similar size, the inspecting party passes between the front rank of troops and the line of company
commanders, or they pass immediately in front of the platoon leaders when companies are in a
line formation.
When the inspection is made by motor vehicle, the reviewing party enters the vehicle in front of
the reviewing stand. The reviewing officer enters first and occupies the left rear position. The host
or COT, proceeds to the post of the COT and stops. The COT salutes, reports, and enters the
vehicle, occupying the right front position.
Upon the departure of the reviewing party, the senior staff officer commands the staff to Parade,
REST. After the inspection has been completed, the senior staff officer commands Staff,
ATTENTION before the return of the COT.
When the reviewing party approaches the right flank of each unit, the unit commander faces about
and commands Company, ATTENTION. The commander then faces to the front and over their
right shoulder commands Eyes, RIGHT. On the command Eyes, RIGHT, the company
commander, executive officer, and platoon leaders execute Eyes Right and Salute. The guidon
bearers execute Eyes Right and Present Guidons. Each Soldier turns their head to the right and, as
the reviewing officer comes into their line of vision, each Soldier follows the officer with their
head and eyes until the reviewing officer reaches the front. At that point, the head and eyes of each
Soldier remain to the front. As soon as the reviewing officer has cleared the unit, the commander
commands Order, ARMS. The commander then faces about and commands Parade, REST,
assumes the position themselves, and remains facing their unit. The left flank unit remains at

TC 3-21.5

10-11

Chapter 10

Attention until the reviewing party has cleared the right rear of the unit. Other commanders remain
facing to the rear and command their units to Attention as the party passes to the rear of their units.
They then command Parade, REST, face to the front, and assume Parade Rest.
Notes. 1. Platoon leaders give the command Eyes, RIGHT and Salute when the company is in a
line formation. The company commander faces their unit, but neither they nor their guidon bearer
salute.
2. When in battalion mass formations, the battalion commander faces about and commands
Battalion, ATTENTION and Eyes, RIGHT, but neither they nor their staff salute or execute eyes
right. The unit commanders, executive officers, platoon leaders, and guidon bearers salute. The
battalion commander remains facing their unit, until the reviewing officer has passed the left front
of their unit, at which time they command Order, ARMS and Parade, REST. They then command
their staff to Parade, REST but remains facing their unit.




10-12

As the reviewing party approaches the Colors, the COT inconspicuously commands Present,
ARMS (six steps from the Colors) and Order, ARMS (six steps beyond the Colors). They do not
salute when passing to the rear of the Colors. The Color guard and bearers execute Eyes Right.
The organizational Color dips (Salutes).
After passing in front of the troops (to include the salute battery), the inspection continues along
the rear of the troops and terminates at the right flank of the band. The COT commands Party,
HALT. The bandmaster has the band play softly until the reviewing party members begin
marching back to their posts. The COT face to the half left in marching, takes two steps, halts, and
face about. The host or host commander repositions themselves to the left of the reviewing officer.
When the host or host commander is in position, the COT and the reviewing officer exchange
Salutes. Upon termination of the Salutes, the reviewing officer and host or host commander
immediately face to the half left in marching and return to their posts. The COT hesitates
momentarily and then faces to the right in marching and returns to their post (see figure 10-6).

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

Figure 10-6. Movement of the reviewing party

May

TC 3-21.5

10-13

Chapter 10

HONORS TO THE NATION
10-22. Use the following procedures to execute honors to the Nation when conducting a review:
 When the reviewing party members have returned to their posts, the COT faces about and directs
BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. After all units are at Attention, the COT gives the
command Colors Center (pause), MARCH. On the preparatory command Colors Center, the
staff faces to the right. On the command of execution MARCH, the staff begins marching forward
to a position offset to the left front of the reviewing stand, halts, and faces to the left. The Colors
take seven steps forward and halt. The COT marches forward until they are three steps in front of
the Color detail, halt, and then face about.
 To move the Colors forward, the COT commands Colors Forward, MARCH. On the command
of execution MARCH, the COT and the Color detail march forward and then halt when the COT
has reached their original post. The COT executes the Hand Salute and reports to the host
commander, “Sir or Ma’am, the Colors are present.” The host commander then returns the Salute
and directs the COT ASSUME YOUR POST AND PRESENT THE COMMAND. On this
directive the COT faces to the right in marching and marches by the most direct route to their post
two steps in front of and centered on their staff, halts perpendicular to their staff, then faces to the
right. After facing to the right, the COT directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO PRESENT ARMS.
 Unit commanders face about and command Company (Battalion), Present, ARMS. Each
commander then faces about and salutes. When all units have completed these movements, the
COT faces about and commands Present, ARMS for themselves, their staff, and the Colors detail.
On the execution of the Hand Salute by the COT, the band begins to play the national anthem.
 The reviewing party and all military spectators salute while the national anthem is being played
(see appendix I).
 Upon completion of the national anthem, the COT, their staff, and the Colors detail terminate their
Salutes on their command. They then face about and direct BRING YOUR UNITS TO ORDER
ARMS AND PARADE REST.
 Unit commanders terminate their Salutes; face about; command Order, ARMS and Parade,
REST; face about; and execute Parade Rest.
 When the last unit has executed the directive, the COT faces about and commands their staff and
themselves to Parade, REST.
Note. Other ceremonial activities may be integrated into the review at this point. The sequence of
events and actions of individuals are discussed in paragraphs 10-26 and 10-34.

REMARKS
10-23. After the COT and their staff have assumed Parade Rest, the reviewing officer, the host or host
commander, or the distinguished guest may address the command:
 Upon completion of the remarks, the COT brings their staff to Attention, faces about, and directs
BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. Unit commanders face about and command
Company (Battalion), ATTENTION, and then face about. The COT faces about and commands
Detachment, POST (pause), MARCH. On the command POST, the Colors Reverse March and
halt.
 On the command MARCH, Colors step off, return to their original posts, and the band begins to
play.
 As the Colors pass their position, the COT and their staff face to the left. They march their staff
back to the center of the field and face them to the right as they face to the left. After the Colors
are in position, the COT then faces the reviewing officer.

10-14

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

MARCH IN REVIEW
10-24. Use the following procedures to conduct a march in review:
 Upon completion of the remarks, the COT commands their staff to Attention, faces about, and
directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. Unit commanders face about and command
Company (Battalion), ATTENTION and face back to the front. When the units are at Attention,
the COT faces the reviewing officer.
 When the COT has faced the reviewing officer, the host or host commander directs PASS IN
REVIEW.
 The COT faces about and directs PASS IN REVIEW. The band is then faced to the right and
marched to a position that enables it to move straight forward onto the line of march without an
initial turning movement, halts, and faces to the left. The left turn marker should be positioned to
minimize the movement of the band (see figure 10-7).
Note. Commanders take no further action until drum majors turn their heads and eyes and point
their arm toward the commander.

Figure 10-7. March in review in column with units in mass

May

TC 3-21.5

10-15

Chapter 10





10-16

Unit commanders face to the right when the COT directs PASS IN REVIEW. If weapons are to
be carried at Right Shoulder Arms, the commander faces about and commands Right Shoulder,
ARMS. The commander then faces to the left. The commander next to the band waits until the
band moves into position. They then command Right Turn, MARCH loud enough for the band
to hear. The band takes this command as its signal to begin playing and to march forward onto the
line of march.
Other units move out in procession in the same manner and follow in column at the prescribed
distance (see figure 10-8). For larger reviews, commanders may command their units (in sequence)
to Parade Rest while waiting their turn to move onto the line of march.

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

Figure 10-8. Battalion in column with companies in mass




May

The band and each following unit change direction at points indicated by markers. The commander
commands, Left turn, MARCH. The commander faces about while marching as their unit is
making the turn. When their unit has completed the turn, the commander commands, Forward,
MARCH, and faces back to the front.
All commanders, except the COT, move with their staff into positions in the column and at the
head of their respective units just before turning onto the reviewing line (see figure 10-9 on
page 10-18).

TC 3-21.5

10-17

Chapter 10

Figure 10-9. Brigade in column with battalions in mass





10-18

The COT and their staff move forward and execute turning movements to arrive at a position
12 steps in front of the drum major on the reviewing line.
On command, the COT, the brigade and battalion commanders, their staffs, and the CSM execute
Eyes, RIGHT and salute at the Eyes Right marker. The commander commands Ready, FRONT
and terminates the Salute when the staffs have reached the Ready Front marker.
The reviewing officer returns only the salute of the COT. (The return of the Salute by the reviewing
officer represents the salute for all subordinate commanders. This enables the reviewing officer to
observe the review without being interrupted by frequent Salutes.) The reviewing officer, the host
or host commander, their staffs, and military spectators Salute the national Color when it passes.

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews








After terminating the Salute, the COT and their staff (without command) execute three wheeling
movements and take their post with the COT on line with and to the right of the reviewing officer.
Troop units execute Eyes Right on command from their company commander or from the center
company commander when in battalion mass. Commanders give the preparatory command Eyes
over their right shoulder two steps from the marker as the right foot strikes the marching surface.
The command of execution RIGHT is given when the right foot strikes the marching surface
again and on line with the marker. On the preparatory command, the guidon bearer executes
Raised Guidon. On the command of execution, the company commander, executive officer, and
platoon leaders execute Eyes Right and the Hand Salute. The guidon bearer executes Eyes Right
and Present Guidon. The company first sergeant only executes Eyes Right. The right file continues
to look straight forward and maintains correct distance. All other members execute Eyes Right and
maintain alignment. When the rear of the unit has passed six steps beyond the reviewing officer,
company commanders command Ready as the left foot strikes the marching surface and FRONT
the next time the left foot strikes the marching surface. Unit personnel end their Salutes and turn
their heads and eyes to the front. The guidon bearer executes Raised Guidon on the command
Ready and returns to the Carry Position on the command FRONT.
When passing the reviewing officer, the bandmaster salutes and continues to look straight forward.
Simultaneously, the drum major executes Eyes Right and Salutes. The other members of the band
continue to play marching music without interruption. When the band has passed the reviewing
officer, the drum major has the band execute three left turns into a position in front of and facing
the reviewing officer and at least 12 steps from the left flank of the marching troops. As the Colors
pass, the bandmaster and drum major salute while the band continues to play marching music
without interruption.
As the Color guard passes the reviewing officer, each member, except the right flank Soldier,
executes Eyes Right on the command of the senior Color sergeant. The organizational Color is
dipped in Salute.

CONCLUSION
10-25. Follow these procedures to conclude a review:
 When the last troop element has passed the reviewing stand and has executed Ready Front, the
band goes into an eight-bar drum cadence.
 It is appropriate for spectators to rise, stand at Attention, and sing while “The Army Goes Rolling
Along” plays.
 On the first beat following the drum cadence, the band begins playing (in place) the official version
of “The Army Goes Rolling Along,” beginning at the introduction. At the appropriate time, the
drum major has the band march forward and execute a left turn onto the reviewing line while
continuing to play until the completion of the chorus.
Note. The band may play music representative of the command after the last troop element has
passed the reviewing stand and before playing “The Army Goes Rolling Along.”


At the completion of the Army song, the COT and the reviewing officer face each other and
exchange Salutes, thus officially terminating the ceremony.

REVIEW WITH DECORATIONS, AWARDS, AND INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT (SEQUENCE OF
EVENTS)
10-26. Unless otherwise specified, the sequence of events for a review with decorations, awards, and
individual retirement is the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual Actions Section (see
paragraph 10-18). Only changes to the sequence of events are listed herein.

May

TC 3-21.5

10-19

Chapter 10

Note. The procedures mentioned provide latitude for recognition of one or a group of retirees of
various grades. However, the host or host commander should consider it appropriate to have the
review conducted in the retiree’s honor when only one distinguished individual is retiring and
allow that individual to participate as the reviewing officer. When the Colors halt, the reviewing
officer (retiree) positions themselves in front of and centered on the Colors facing the reviewing
stand. After awards are presented by the host, the retiree returns to the reviewing officer’s post. If
there are several awardees and or retirees, it may be desirable to have the host or host commander
act as the reviewing officer. In such case, the following sequence will apply.

Formation of Troops
10-27. Formation of troops is executed the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual
Actions Section (see paragraph 10-19).

Presentation and Honors
10-28. Presentation and honors are executed the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual
Actions Section (see paragraph 10-20).
Note. When scheduled, retreat is integrated into the review at this point. Procedures are outlined
in paragraph 10-43.

Inspection
10-29. The inspection may be omitted for decorations, awards, or retirement ceremonies. If the inspection
is omitted, the COT (following Order Arms after the presentation and honors, or after “To the Color” is
played) commands Persons to be honored and Colors center (pause), MARCH. The ceremony then
continues (as described in this paragraph). If the inspection is not omitted, use the procedures described in
paragraph 10-21 to conduct an inspection during a review.

Honors to the Nation
10-30. Omit if retreat is conducted as part of the review.
Note. Other ceremonial activities may be integrated into the review at this point.

Remarks
10-31. After the COT and their staff have assumed Parade Rest, the reviewing officer, the host or host
commander, or the distinguished guest may address the command:
 Upon completion of the remarks, the COT brings their staff to Attention, faces about, and directs
BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. Unit commanders face about and command
Company (Battalion), ATTENTION, and then face about. The COT faces about and commands
Detachment, POST (pause), MARCH. On the command POST, the following actions occur
simultaneously:
 Colors Reverse March and halt.
 Awardees and or retirees execute a Right Face; guidon bearers and commanders execute an
About Face.
 On the command MARCH, Colors and awardees step off and the band begins to play:
 Persons who were decorated march forward, execute two Column Lefts, halt on line (six steps
to the left of the reviewing officer), and execute a Left Face. The commands HALT and Left,
FACE are given by the last Soldier in the file.

10-20

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews





Colors step off and return to their original posts.
As the Colors pass their position, the COT faces themselves and their staff to the left, marches
their staff back to the center of the field, and faces them to the right. The COT faces to the left;
when the Colors are in position, they then face the reviewing officer.

March in Review
10-32. March in review is executed the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual Actions
Section (see paragraph 10-24).

Conclusion
10-33. Conclusion is executed the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual Actions
Section (see paragraph 10-25).

REVIEW WITH CHANGE OF COMMAND, ACTIVATION, OR DEACTIVATION (SEQUENCE OF
EVENTS)
10-34. Unless otherwise specified, the sequence of events for a review with change of command, activation,
or deactivation is the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual Actions Section (see
paragraph 10-19).

Formation of Troops
10-35. Formation of troops is executed the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual
Actions Section (see paragraph 10-19).

Presentation and Honors
10-36. Presentation and honors is executed the same as described in the Sequence of Events and Individual
Actions Section (see paragraph 10-20).

Inspection
10-37. The inspection may be omitted for change of command, activation, or deactivation ceremonies. If
the inspection is not omitted, use the procedures described in paragraph 10-23 to conduct an inspection during
a review. When the reviewing officer has completed the inspection, the COT faces about and directs BRING
YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. Unit commanders face about and command Company (Battalion),
ATTENTION, then they face about. When the command has completed the movement, the COT commands
Colors Center (pause), MARCH. On that command, the Colors are brought forward in the same manner as
described in paragraph 10-21.

Honors to the Nation
10-38. Honors to the Nation is omitted if retreat is conducted as part of the review. On the completion of
honors to the Nation, the COT commands Detachment order, ARMS, faces about, and directs BRING
YOUR UNITS TO ORDER ARMS AND PARADE REST. Unit commanders terminate their Salutes, face
about and command Order, ARMS and Parade, REST. They then face about and assume Parade Rest. The
COT faces about and commands Parade, REST; the COT and their staff execute Parade Rest.
Note. Other ceremonial activities may be integrated into the review at this point.

Remarks
10-39. As soon as the COT and their staff have executed Parade Rest, the reviewing party moves forward
to be within four steps of the Colors and halts. As the party marches forward, the senior commander positions

May

TC 3-21.5

10-21

Chapter 10

themselves between the old and the new commander. The CSM moves from their post (at the rear of the
reviewing party) by the most direct route and halts directly in front of the organizational Color.
Note. At the beginning of the ceremony, the outgoing commander should assume the role of host
or host commander. The senior official or commander designated to “pass the organizational
Color” should assume the role of an honored guest or reviewing officer except during that brief
portion of the ceremony wherein they may be called upon to act as a host or host commander for
the purpose of passing the organizational Color. Since the inspection of troops normally occurs
early in the ceremony, the incoming commander is also at that time treated as a guest and is
expected to accompany the outgoing commander and senior official during the inspection. After
the organizational Color has been passed, the incoming commander should assume the role of host
or host commander, and the senior official and outgoing commander both become honored guests
or reviewing officers at this point and remain as such for the balance of the ceremony (see
figure 10-10).

Figure 10-10. Reviewing party for change of command

Change-of-Command Ceremonies
10-40. The outgoing commander positions themselves four steps in front of their organizational Color; the
senior commander is directly to their left. The old and new commanders then take one step forward and
execute Facing Movements so that they are facing each other:
 The CSM removes the organizational Color from the Color bearer’s sling (with their right hand
above their left hand) and faces about. The narrator reads the assumption-of-command order.
 Upon completion of the reading, the CSM steps forward and presents the organizational Color to
the outgoing commander (see figure 10-11, item 1 on page 10-24), who grasps the organizational
Color with their left hand above their right hand. The outgoing commander passes the
organizational Color to the senior commander (see figure 10-11, item 2 on page 10-24), who
grasps the Color with their right hand above their left hand and, in turn, passes the organizational
Color to the new commander (see figure 10-11, item 3 on page 10-24), who grasps the
organizational Color with their left hand above their right hand. The incoming commander passes
the organizational Color to the CSM (see figure 10-11, item 4 on page 10-24) who grasps it with
their right hand above their left hand, faces about and returns the organizational Color to the Color
bearer’s sling.
 As the CSM faces about, both commanders then execute Facing Movements back to their original
direction facing the Colors. The CSM and the reviewing party face about and return to their post.
At this point, the commander makes their remarks.

10-22

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews

Notes. 1. This procedure allows the organizational Color to be over the heart of the incoming and
outgoing commanders.
2. For a company-level change of command, the reviewing party is lined up the same as in larger
units. The guidon takes the place of the organizational Color and the first sergeant replaces the
CSM. The guidon is passed in the same manner as the organizational Color. The sequence of
events remains the same with modifications made to fit available assets.




May

Upon completion of the remarks, the COT brings their staff to Attention, faces about, and directs
BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. Unit commanders face about and command
Company (Battalion), ATTENTION, and then face about. The COT faces about and commands
Detachment, POST (pause), MARCH. On the command POST, the following actions occur
simultaneously:
 Colors Reverse March and Halt.
 Awardees and retirees execute a Right Face; guidon bearers and commanders execute an
About Face.
On the command MARCH, Colors and awardees (if present) step off and the band begins to play:
 Persons who were decorated march forward, execute two Column Lefts, halt on line (six steps
to the left of the reviewing officer), and execute a Left Face. The commands HALT and Left,
FACE are given by the last Soldier in the file.
 Colors step off and return to their original posts.
 As the Colors pass their position, the COT and their staff face to the left. They march their
staff back to the center of the field and faces them to the right as they face to the left. After
the Colors are in position, the COT then faces the reviewing officer.

TC 3-21.5

10-23

Chapter 10

Figure 10-11. Passing of organizational Color for change of command

Activation Ceremonies
10-41. The position of the senior commander is four steps in front of the Color bearer (with an empty sling
for the organizational Color of the unit to be activated) with the unit commander to their left. The CSM moves
from their post with the cased organizational Color and positions themselves in front of and facing the senior
commander. The narrator reads the activation order:

10-24

TC 3-21.5

May

Reviews







Upon completion of the reading, the CSM presents the cased organizational Color to the senior
commander and steps backward. The senior commander lowers the cased organizational Color to
allow the CSM to uncase it. The CSM folds the case and places it inside the Color bearer’s
cartridge belt (rear center).
With the organizational Color uncased, the senior commander rotates the staff to allow the
organizational Color to unfurl and drape freely. The senior commander presents the organizational
Color to the commander of the unit to be activated. The CSM steps forward and accepts the
organizational Color from the unit commander and places it in the Color bearer’s sling.
When the CSM faces about, the reviewing party faces about and returns to the reviewing stand.
The CSM returns to their original post. Procedures from this point forward are the same as for
change-of-command ceremonies.

Deactivation Ceremonies
10-42. The position of the commander is four steps in front of the organizational Color. The CSM moves
from their post and positions themselves in front of the organizational Color. The CSM moves the
organizational Color from the bearer’s sling and faces about. The narrator reads the deactivation order:
 Upon completion of the reading, the CSM presents the organizational Color to the commander
and steps backward. The organizational Color is grasped by the commanders and the CSM as
described for change-of-command ceremonies. The commander rotates and lowers the
organizational Color, allowing the CSM to case the organizational Color.
 Upon completion of the casing, the commander presents the cased organizational Color to the
senior commander and the CSM steps forward and accepts the organizational Color from the
senior commander. The reviewing party faces about and returns to the reviewing stand.
 The CSM hands the cased organizational Color to a designated Soldier who marches from the
field and the CSM returns to their post. The Color bearer of the deactivated unit marches with the
Color guard for the remainder of the ceremony with an empty sling. Procedures from this point
forward are the same as for change-of-command ceremonies.

REVIEW WITH RETREAT (SEQUENCE OF EVENTS)
10-43. Unless otherwise specified, the sequence of events and individual actions for a review with retreat
are the same as described in paragraph 10-24. Only changes to the sequence of events are listed herein.
Note. Honors to the Nation is omitted when retreat is conducted as part of a review.

FORMATION OF TROOPS AND PRESENTATION AND HONORS
10-44. Formation of troops is executed the same as described in paragraph 10-19.

RETREAT
10-45. Upon completion of the presentation and honors, the COT commands their staff to Order, ARMS;
faces about; and directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ORDER ARMS AND PARADE REST. Unit
commanders terminate their Salutes, face about, and command Order, ARMS and Parade, REST. They then
face to the front and execute Parade Rest. The COT directs SOUND RETREAT, faces about, and commands
their staff to Parade, REST. As soon as the COT and their staff are at Parade Rest, the band sounds retreat.
At the conclusion of retreat, the COT commands their staff to ATTENTION, faces the troops, and directs
BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION AND PRESENT ARMS. When the units have completed these
movements, the commander then faces the reviewing officer and commands their staff to Present, ARMS.
This is the signal for the band to play “To the Color.”

May

TC 3-21.5

10-25

Chapter 10








When the ceremony is held on an Army post, the cannon is fired on the last note of “Retreat,” and
the flag is lowered while “To the Color” is played. (See appendix I regarding appropriate
procedures.)
The reviewing officer and their staff stand at Attention during the sounding of the retreat. On the
first note of “To the Color,” they Salute and hold the Salute until the last note is played.
On the last note of the music, the COT commands Order, ARMS for themselves and their staff,
faces about, and directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ORDER ARMS AND PARADE REST.
When the units have completed these movements, the COT then faces the reviewing officer.
The review then proceeds with the inspection as in a normal review; if omitted, other parts are
integrated into the review as described in paragraphs 10-26 and 10-34.

SPECIAL REVIEW
10-46. A special review is conducted by a composite or representative unit and serves the same purposes
as a standard review when a larger formation is not practical. The composite unit normally consists of a band,
Colors, two or more platoons, and a salute battery (when appropriate). The reduced formation is not a reason
to eliminate any of the components of a review or change their sequence:
 A special review is essentially the same as a battalion or larger unit review, except—
 The troops are formed on a final line.
 Attention and Adjutant’s Call are not sounded.
 Neither the adjutant nor a staff participate.
 Unit guidons are not used in this formation. (Organizational Colors represent the unit
conducting the review.)
 The COT gives commands rather than directives.
 The band positions itself in front of the reviewing officer by executing a Left Turn at a point
midway between the final line and the reviewing line, and then turns right when on line and
centered on the reviewing officer.
 Platoons pass the reviewing stand in line formation rather than column formation.
 On the directive Pass in review the COT commands Right, FACE (Right Shoulder, ARMS,
if appropriate); Forward, MARCH. The band steps off playing a march on the command of
Forward, MARCH. Platoon leaders remain six steps to the front of and centered on their
platoons. Platoon sergeants remain one step to the rear of and centered on their platoon.
 Platoon leaders command Column Left, MARCH at the first turn marker and Left Flank,
MARCH when centered on the reviewing line.
 Indoor ceremonies retain the same sequence as a normal review, excluding elements that are
precluded because of space. Generally, a pass in review cannot be conducted indoors.

10-26

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 11

Parades
The term “parade” had various meanings to Continental Army troops camped at Valley
Forge. It could mean to form, march, and drill. Present-day parade procedures
originated from the daily activities conducted then to form, organize, instruct, and issue
parole and countersign words to the various guards on duty (outpost, picket, camp, and
quarters). Early parades also enabled commanders to give special instructions to
subordinate leaders and to make command announcements. In the U.S. Army
regulations of 1863, reviews were a type of parade, and “dress parades” were
conducted daily, except on extraordinary and urgent occasions. The parade remains
basically the same as the review except that it has retained its original intent—a method
whereby unit commanders could inspect troops, present awards, and issue information.
The sequence of a parade has the following steps—formation of troops, sound off by
a band, honors to the Nation, presentation, manual of arms, report, orders published,
officers center, pass in review.

SECTION I – HISTORY
11-1. Battalion and brigade parades are opened by the adjutant’s call sounded on a trumpet. This call has
opened parades of the American forces for over 150 years. After some preliminaries, the adjutant directs
SOUND OFF and the band plays three chords. Having sounded off, the band marches in front of the troops
and then countermarches to its original position. This March across the front of the line is said to have
originated with the Crusades (A.D. 1095 to 1260). The troops offering themselves for holy service were
drawn up in a long formation and the band countermarched only before those chosen to serve. In American
ceremonies, the sound off has been handed down as a ceremonial tradition.
11-2. After the band sounds off, the commanding officer may, if they wish, give the troops some Facings or
movements of the manual of arms. This was the traditional way in which they established control over their
command, and it has been practiced in the United States since the Revolutionary War.
11-3. Parades in the Revolutionary Army were usually held at “Troops” or about 8 AM and was the time
used for sergeants to call the roll and report it to the adjutant. After the sergeants had returned to their posts,
the commander directed that necessary orders and information be reported. After the adjutant had read the
orders, they announced Parade is dismissed. At that time, officers moved to a position centered on the
commanding officer. As the commander gave specific instructions to the officers, the first sergeants would
march their units back to their respective company areas where they would be dismissed.

SECTION II – PREPARATION
11-4. The appearance and movement of troops in formation are the primary characteristics of a parade. The
preparation and organization of troops for a parade are similar to that of a review. In a parade, since the COT
is also the reviewing officer, the distance between the troops and the commander is greater than that for a
review. Other differences are that the band conducts Sound Off, the inspection is omitted, a report is rendered,
orders are published, and officers and guidons are marched forward and centered on the commander. If retreat
is scheduled, honors to the Nation are conducted concurrently with retreat.

May

TC 3-21.5

11-1

Chapter 11

SECTION III – TYPES OF PARADES
11-5. The procedures for conducting a ceremonial battalion parade, a ceremonial brigade parade, and street
parades are discussed herein. The ceremonial battalion parade and ceremonial brigade parade are conducted
very similar in nature, but a brigade ceremonial parade is conducted in a larger scale with a few differences.

CEREMONIAL BATTALION PARADE
11-6. The procedures for conducting a ceremonial battalion parade begin with the formation of troops. The
adjutant then directs Sound Off to the battalion formation followed by honors to the Nation. Immediately
after honors, the adjutant announces Order Arms and presents the battalion to the battalion commander. The
commander may direct manual of arms and then have the commanders report that their unit is accounted for.
Orders will then be published, officers will conduct a center march, and then finally the pass in review and
the conclusion of the parade.

FORMATION OF TROOPS
11-7. Units are moved to their positions on the ready line in the most convenient manner. The commander
prescribes the routes, sequence, and time of arrival on the ready line. The commander and their staff take
their posts before adjutant’s call. The procedure for moving from the ready line to the final line is the same
as for a review.

SOUND OFF
11-8. After the battalion has been formed, aligned, and given Parade Rest on the final line, the adjutant
directs SOUND OFF and assumes the position of Parade Rest. The adjutant remains facing the formation:
 At the directive Sound Off, the band plays three sound off chords. At the conclusion of the third
chord, the band moves forward playing a march in quick time. The band executes a left turn to
march across the front of the troops. At the left of the line of troops, the band countermarches and
returns over the same ground to the right of the line. After the band has passed beyond the right
of the troops, it executes a right turn, countermarches again, and halts in its original position.
 When the band has halted, it ceases playing at the next convenient place in the music and again
plays the three sound off chords. (Trooping the line by the band may be eliminated when
ceremonies are conducted indoors during inclement weather and space is limited.)
Note. Retreat, when scheduled, is integrated at this point. Upon completion of the sound off
chords, the band pauses briefly and then plays retreat (by the trumpet section) without a command
from the adjutant. Upon completion of retreat, the adjutant comes to Attention and directs BRING
YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION AND PRESENT ARMS. The commander and their staff
assume Parade Rest, Attention, Present Arms, and Order Arms with the adjutant. The adjutant
faces about and salutes. The adjutant’s Salute is the signal for the band to play “To the Color” or
the national anthem. At the conclusion of “To the Color” or the national anthem, the adjutant
comes to Order Arms, faces about, and directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ORDER ARMS.
After the last unit comes to Order Arms, the adjutant faces about.

HONORS TO THE NATION
11-9. If retreat is not conducted, the adjutant (after the band has completed Sound Off) assumes the position
of Attention and directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION AND PRESENT ARMS. Unit
commanders assume the position of Attention, face about, and command Company, ATTENTION, Present,
ARMS. They face about and salute. When all units are at Present Arms, the adjutant faces about and salutes.
This is the signal for the band to play the national anthem. The battalion commander and their staff execute
Present, ARMS on their command on the first note of the music.

11-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Parades

PRESENTATION
11-10. Upon completion of the national anthem, the battalion commander and their staff execute Order,
ARMS on their command. The adjutant terminates their Salute, faces about, and directs BRING YOUR
UNITS TO ORDER ARMS. Unit commanders terminate their Salute, face about, command Order, ARMS,
and then face (back) to the front. When all units are at Order Arms, the adjutant faces about, salutes, and
reports Sir or Ma’am, the parade is formed. The battalion commander returns the Salute and commands
POST. The adjutant marches forward, passes by the battalion commander’s right, and takes their post as the
right flank member of the staff.

MANUAL OF ARMS
11-11. After the adjutant has joined the staff, the battalion commander commands such movements in the
manual of arms as they may desire. When desired, the commander may direct, rather than command, HAVE
YOUR UNITS EXECUTE THE MANUAL OF ARMS. The unit commanders, in sequence from right to
left, command Right Shoulder, ARMS; Port, ARMS; Left Shoulder, ARMS; Order, ARMS. When the unit
on the right has completed all the movements, the next unit then begins and so on until the last unit has
completed the movements.

REPORT
11-12. When all units have completed the manual of arms, the battalion commander then directs RECEIVE
THE REPORT. The adjutant returns to their position at the center of the command and commands
REPORT. Unit commanders in succession, from right to left, salute and report “________ Company, all
present or accounted for.” The adjutant returns each commander’s Salute. After receiving the report, the
adjutant faces about, salutes, and reports “Sir or Ma’am, all present or accounted for.”

PUBLISHING OF ORDERS
11-13. The battalion commander returns the Salute and directs PUBLISH THE ORDERS. The adjutant
faces about and directs ATTENTION TO ORDERS (they then read the orders). More information about
Attention to Orders can be found in appendix G.

OFFICERS CENTER MARCH
11-14. After reading the orders, the adjutant directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO PARADE REST:
 Unit commanders face about and command Parade, REST. They then face about and come to
Parade Rest. When all units are at Parade Rest, the adjutant commands (loud enough for the band
to hear) Officers (pause), Center (long pause), MARCH. They then face about and takes their
post with the staff:
 On the command Officers, all officers come to Attention and guidon bearers come to Carry
Guidon.
 On the command Center, when companies are in mass formation, the company commanders
and guidon bearers face to the center. Officers commanding platoons move one step forward
and face to the center. Executive officers move through the interval between units nearest to
the center and take their posts in the column formed by the platoon leaders.
 At the command MARCH, the band plays marching music and continues to play until the
officers have halted in front of the commander. Officers and guidon bearers close to the center,
halt, and individually face to the front. Company commanders, when moving to the center,
face half right or half left in marching, march to the front, and close on a line four steps in
advance of the line of guidon bearers. The guidon bearers close on their own line, each taking
a post to the rear of their company commander. All other officers close on the line of platoon
leaders (see figure 11-1 on page 11-4).

May

TC 3-21.5

11-3

Chapter 11

Figure 11-1. Position of key personnel after the command officers, Center, MARCH








After the officers and guidon bearers have closed and faced to the front, the senior company
commander commands Forward, MARCH. The center officer of the leading rank is the guide.
The officers and guidon bearers are halted with the leading rank six steps from the battalion
commander, and they salute. The senior company commander commands HALT and Present,
ARMS. The battalion commander returns the Salute. On the command Order, ARMS by the
senior company commander, the officers execute Order Arms and the guidon bearers execute
Carry Guidon.
The battalion commander gives such instruction as they deem necessary and then commands
Officers, Post (pause), MARCH:
 At the command Post, all officers and guidon bearers face about.
 At the command of execution MARCH, the band begins to play and officers and guidon
bearers step off.
The senior commander commands Officers, HALT. They halt the leading rank in line, three steps
from the line of companies. The senior commander then commands Post (pause), MARCH:
 At the command Post, the officers and guidon bearers face outward.
 At the command MARCH, the officers and guidon bearers step off and return to their posts
and come to Parade Rest. The music ceases when the last officer has taken their post and
come to Parade Rest.
During the execution of Officers Center and Officers Post, except when saluting, all guidon
bearers remain at Carry Guidon.

PASS IN REVIEW
11-15. When all officers have returned to their posts and the band has stopped playing, the battalion
commander directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO ATTENTION. Unit commanders assume the position of
Attention, face about, and command Company, ATTENTION. Then they face about. When all units are at
Attention, the battalion commander directs PASS IN REVIEW. The battalion passes in review in the same
manner as prescribed for a review except the units render honors when six steps to the left of the COT and
staff, and terminate honors when the unit is six steps to the right of the COT and staff. The COT and staff
then assume the role of the reviewing party at their location on the field.

11-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Parades

CONCLUSION
11-16. When the last element of troops has passed the reviewing stand and executed Ready Front, the band
ceases playing and goes immediately into an eight-bar drum cadence. On the first beat following drum
cadence, the band begins playing (in place) the official version of “The Army Goes Rolling Along,”
beginning at the introduction. On the second time through letter A (or ninth bar), the drum major has the
band march forward and execute a left turn onto the reviewing line while continuing to play until the
completion of the chorus. The completion of “The Army Goes Rolling Along” terminates the ceremony. It
is appropriate for spectators to rise and stand at the position of Attention while “The Army Goes Rolling
Along” plays.

CEREMONIAL BRIGADE PARADE
11-17. The brigade ordinarily is formed in line with battalions in mass formations. The parade is the same
as the ceremonial battalion parade with the following exceptions:
 The brigade commander is substituted for battalion commander, and brigade for battalion, in the
description.
 In moving across the front of the brigade, the band passes in front of the line of battalion
commanders during the Sound Off.
11-18. The battalions execute Present Arms, Order Arms, Parade Rest, and come to Attention on the
command of execution of their respective commanders. Reports are made by the battalion commanders
instead of company commanders.
11-19. At the command of execution MARCH, of Officers, Center, MARCH, the battalion commanders,
their staffs, and Colors close on the line of battalion commanders and staffs. The company commanders face
to the half right or half left in marching and close on a line four steps to the rear of the battalion Color. The
guidon bearers face half right or half left in marching and close on a line four steps back of the company
commanders. The other officers face half right or half left in marching and close on a line four steps behind
the guidon bearers. The CSM remains in place and assumes command of the battalion.
11-20. The officers, guidon bearers, and Colors having closed and faced to the front, the senior battalion
commander commands Forward, MARCH. The center officer of the leading rank is the guide. On the
command of the senior battalion commander, the officers, guidon bearers, and Colors are halted with the
leading ranks six steps from the brigade commander. They salute the brigade commander; the brigade
commander returns the Salute. The commands Present, ARMS and Order, ARMS are given by the senior
battalion commander.
11-21. The brigade commander commands Officers, Post (pause), MARCH. On the command Post, the
Colors execute Reverse March. All others execute About Face. On the command of execution MARCH, the
officers, Colors, and guidon bearers march forward. The senior battalion commander commands Officers,
HALT so that the rank of battalion commanders is on line with its original position. The senior battalion
commander then commands Post (pause), MARCH. On the command Post, the battalion commanders and
staffs face outward, the battalion Color guard executes wheeling movements, and on the command of
execution MARCH, the Color guard marches back to its original position. The company commanders,
guidon bearers, and other officers face to the half right or half left in marching and move back to their original
positions.

STREET PARADES
11-22. For street parades, troops are formed and marched in the most convenient manner. Street parades
may include military vehicles. Towed or transported weapons add to the drama of a street parade. Cargo
vehicles are included only to increase the size of the display.
 Practical formations for street parades are—
 Columns of threes and fours.
 Two or more columns of threes and fours abreast.
 Mass formation.

May

TC 3-21.5

11-5

Chapter 11




11-6

The vehicles move in a single column or column of twos, threes, or fours abreast, as the width of
the street permits.
In order to keep military units in the same cadence, units should not march between two bands.
.

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 12

Honor Guards
In the Continental Army, honor guards were used as a protective measure and as a
means of showing the improvement in discipline in the newly formed army. They were
probably selected specifically for their size and strength and maybe their proven
prowess in combat. Today, the honor guard formation is a special courtesy to visiting
dignitaries. Members of the guard are selected for their Soldierly appearance and
superior discipline.

SECTION I – BASIC INFORMATION
12-1. The basic information herein applies to all honor guards:
 An honor guard consists of a band, Colors, salute battery (when available and appropriate), and a
formation of troops. Honor guards render personal honors to persons of high military or civilian
rank or position upon arrival or departure from a military command. Honor guards are not a
substitute for those ceremonies appropriate in a review or parade.
 An honor guard should not be so large as to compromise the exceptional standards required of
honor guards. Uniforms will be those prescribed in Army regulations and tables of allowance.
 The senior commander or their appointed representative is the host and takes part in the ceremony.
They are briefed on the sequence of events and advises the person to be honored of actions that
will take place.
 Before the arrival of the person(s) to be honored, the honor guard commander positions the band,
formation of troops, and salute battery from right to left in that order. The troops are formed in
line of companies or platoons with the Colors centered. When conditions dictate, the salute battery
may be located separately but its control and purpose must not be impaired.

SECTION II – SEQUENCE OF EVENTS AND INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS
12-2. The sequence of events for conducting an honor guard are discussed herein:
 At the approach of the person(s) to be honored, the honor guard commander faces about,
commands Honor guard, ATTENTION, and then faces about again. The host welcomes the
person(s) to be honored on arrival, escorts them to the position not more than 20 steps in front of
and facing the honor guard commander and takes their position on the guest’s left. When the
person(s) to be honored has halted in their position, the honor guard commander faces about,
commands Present, ARMS, faces about, and Salutes.
 As the honor guard commander executes the Hand Salute, the band begins the appropriate honors.
When a salute battery is employed, the first round is fired simultaneously with the first note of the
music and remaining rounds are fired at 3-second intervals. All military personnel in the vicinity
of the honor guard formation, except those on security duty, salute during the firing of the cannon
salute and the rendering of honors (see AR 600-25).
Note. If a foreign dignitary’s honors include their national anthem, the sequence of the ceremony
is: honors, inspection, and “The Army Goes Rolling Along” concluding the ceremony.


May

On the completion of the honors, the honor guard commander terminates their Salute, faces about,
and commands Order, ARMS. The honor guard commander then faces about.

TC 3-21.5

12-1

Chapter 12













At this time, the honoree(s) and host march forward and halt three steps from the honor guard
commander. The honor guard commander salutes and reports “Sir or Ma’am, the honor guard is
prepared for inspection.” The band begins to play appropriate music upon the salute of the guard
commander and continues to play until the members of the reviewing party have returned to their
posts. The guard commander then guides the honoree(s) and host to the right of the band. The
inspecting party passes along the front and rear of the line of troops, to include the salute battery
(if used), with the option of omitting the salute battery from the inspection if its distance from the
remainder of the honor guard is prohibitive.
The honor guard commander takes a position on the right of the person(s) honored and guides
them through the inspection. The host takes a position on the right of the honor guard commander.
The inspection begins at the right of the band. The inspecting party passes along the front rank of
troops. Ranks are not opened; the individual members of the honor guard do not come to
Inspection Arms or execute Eyes Right.
The members of the inspecting party render Hand Salutes when they pass in front of the Colors.
The inspection terminates at the right flank of the band. The honor guard commander commands
Party, HALT. The bandmaster has the band play softly until the reviewing party members begin
marching back to their posts. The honor guard commander faces to the half left in marching, takes
two steps, halts, and faces about. The host repositions themselves to the left of the honoree(s).
When the host is in position, the honor guard commander and the honoree(s) exchange Salutes.
Upon termination of the Salutes, the honoree(s) and the host immediately face to the half left in
marching and return to their posts. The honor guard commander hesitates momentarily, then faces
to the right in marching, and returns to their post.
After the inspection is terminated and the honoree(s) and host return to their positions, the honor
guard is given Present, ARMS and the band plays the national anthem. If the honoree(s) is a
foreign dignitary, the national anthem of their country is played first, followed by an approximate
3-second drum roll and the playing of “The Star-Spangled Banner.”
When “The Star-Spangled Banner” ends, the command Order, ARMS is given. The honor guard
commander faces about after the command for Order Arms is given and remains at Attention while
the band plays one chorus of “The Army Goes Rolling Along,” beginning at the introduction. At
the completion of “The Army Goes Rolling Along,” the honor guard commander salutes and
announces “Sir or Ma’am, this concludes the ceremony.” The honor guard remains at Attention
until the honoree(s) has departed. The band may play incidental background music while the
honoree(s) is being introduced to the staff and other guests.

SECTION III – HONOR CORDON CEREMONIES
12-3. In addition to a scheduled honor guard ceremony, an honor cordon—a line of Soldiers to honor a
dignitary upon entering or exiting from a given place or vehicle—may be used when welcoming or
bidding farewell to distinguished visitors. The ceremony consists of a select group of Soldiers with
characteristics associated with honor guards, designated to honor and provide security at the immediate
arrival or departure site:
 The honor cordon normally consists of two squads, a senior sergeant, a cordon commander, and a
host. When deemed appropriate, the commander may elect to use a band, Colors, and
distinguishing flags:
 Arrival. Upon arrival of the craft or vehicle, the cordon is marched to a position near the exit
(ramp) in two columns, centered on the exit, faced to the center, and dressed with about three
steps distance between the ranks. As the honored guest(s) and greeting party depart the
immediate vicinity of the exit, and approach within three steps of the host, the cordon
commander commands Present, ARMS, and the entire cordon salutes simultaneously. After
the honored guest(s) and all greeting party members have cleared the formation, the cordon
commander commands Order, ARMS, and the cordon members come to Order Arms
simultaneously (see figure 12-1 on page 12-4).
 Departure. The formation for the honor cordon upon departure is basically the same as that
for arrival, except the cordon commander and the senior sergeant position themselves on the

12-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Honor Guards



May

flank of the formation away from the departure site. At the approach (about three steps) of the
honored guest(s) and host, the cordon commander commands Present, ARMS, and the
cordon salutes simultaneously. After the honored guest has entered the conveyance, the
cordon commander commands Order, ARMS and remains in place until the conveyance has
departed. If the conveyance is an aircraft, the cordon commander commands Order, ARMS;
Guards, FACE, and the guards face toward the cordon commander. The honor cordon departs
the area.
When a band and Colors are a part of the arrival or departure ceremonies, they are positioned as
shown in figure 12-1 on page 12-4. The band plays appropriate music during the ceremony. The
organizational Color is dipped in salute when the honored guest(s) approaches to within six steps.
After they pass, it is returned to the carry position. As soon as the guest(s) has entered the
conveyance during a departure ceremony, the Colors and distinguishing flags depart the area with
the honor cordon.

TC 3-21.5

12-3

Chapter 12

Figure 12-1. Honor cordon formations

12-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 13

Retreats and Reveilles
Retreat is a ceremony in which the unit honors the U.S. flag when it is lowered in the
evening. This ceremony is conducted at the direction of the unit commanders. The
installation commander sets the time for sounding retreat. Reveille is a ceremony in
which a unit honors the U.S. flag as it is raised in the morning. This ceremony is
conducted at the direction of the commander. The installation commander sets the time
for sounding reveille. (See appendix I for more information on raising the flag.)

SECTION I – RETREAT
13-1. The term “retreat” is taken from the French word “retraite” and refers to the evening ceremony. The
bugle call sounded at retreat was first used in the French army and dates to the Crusades. Retreat was sounded
at sunset to notify sentries to start challenging until sunrise, and to tell the rank and file to go to their quarters.
The ceremony remains as a tradition. The old Cavalry call “To the Standard,” in use from about 1835, has
been replaced by the present call of “To the Color.” This remains as music honoring the flag as it is lowered
in the evening.

RETREAT SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
13-2. The sequence of events for conducting retreat are discussed herein:
 The unit is formed facing the flag 5 minutes (if possible) before the sounding of retreat. Four
minutes before the sounding of retreat, the adjutant or other appointed officer takes their position
centered on and facing the line of troops and commands Battalion, ATTENTION and then
Parade, REST.
 The adjutant faces about and executes Parade Rest. On the last note of retreat, the evening gun is
fired. The adjutant then comes to Attention, faces about, and commands Battalion, ATTENTION
and Present, ARMS so that the unit is at Present Arms when the first note of “To the Color” or
national anthem is sounded. The adjutant then faces about and executes Present Arms. The
adjutant’s Salute is the signal for the band to begin playing “To the Color.”
 At the last note of “To the Color” or the national anthem, the adjutant faces about, commands
Order, ARMS, and then directs TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR UNITS. Unit commanders render
the Hand Salute. The adjutant returns all Salutes with one Salute. This terminates the retreat
formation.
Note. When subordinate units stand at retreat, not as a part of a major command, the sequence is
the same except the unit commander gives the commands.

COMMAND RETREAT HISTORY
13-3. Command retreat is a ceremony conducted with all members of the command present. Normally, it is
conducted by a battalion or larger unit. In the 18th century, command retreat was a daily occurrence, not to
honor the flag but as a signal for units to call the roll as a final accounting before reveille the following
morning.

May

TC 3-21.5

13-1

Chapter 13

COMMAND RETREAT SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
13-4. The sequence of events for conducting command retreat are discussed herein:
 The unit is formed in line formation facing the flag (if possible). Subunits may be in mass
formation. Subunits are brought to Attention at the approach of the commander and their staff, or
at a predesignated signal.
 The COT forms their staff in line, takes their position two steps in front of the staff, and marches
them to a position centered on and in front of the line of troops. The COT gives the proper
commands to have themselves and their staff facing the line of troops when halted.
 The adjutant, as soon as the staff is halted and without command, moves from their position with
the staff to a position midway between the COT and the line of unit commanders. The adjutant
commands REPORT. All unit commanders salute and report in succession from right to left “Sir
or Ma’am, company all present or accounted for.” The adjutant returns each Salute. The adjutant
then commands Present, ARMS, faces about, Salutes, and reports to the COT “Sir or Ma’am, all
present or accounted for.”
 The COT returns the Salute and directs POST. The adjutant moves to their position with the staff.
The COT commands Order, ARMS.
 The left flank member of the staff gives the commands to move the staff from behind the COT to
a position two steps in front of the COT. The COT commands Parade, REST. If a band or field
music is to be used, the commander comes to Attention at the appointed time and commands
SOUND RETREAT. They then return to Parade Rest.
 On the last note of “Retreat,” the evening gun is fired and the COT commands Battalion,
ATTENTION and Present, ARMS. The COT then executes About Face and commands
themselves and their staff to Present, ARMS. The commander’s Salute is the signal for the band
to begin playing “To the Color” or the national anthem as the flag is lowered.
 After the last note of music, the COT commands themselves and their staff to Order, ARMS,
faces about, commands Order, ARMS and directs TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR UNITS. The
unit commanders render the Hand Salute. The COT returns all Salutes with one Salute. The COT
then marches their staff away or dismisses them.

SECTION II – REVEILLE
13-5. Reveille was not originally intended as honors to the flag. In 1812, it was a drum call to signify that
Soldiers should rise for day duty and sentries should leave off night challenging. As time passed, reveille
came to denote when the flag was raised in the morning and honors paid to it.

REVEILLE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
13-6. The sequence of events for conducting reveille are discussed herein:
 The unit is formed facing the flag 5 minutes (if possible) before the sounding of reveille. Four
minutes before the sounding of reveille, the adjutant or other appointed officer (normally the duty
officer) takes their position centered on the line of troops, commands the unit to ATTENTION,
and commands REPORT.
 All subunits (companies, batteries, or troops) report in succession from right to left, “Sir or
Ma’am, _____ Company, all present or accounted for,” or “Sir or Ma’am, _____ Company,
____ Soldiers absent.” Salutes are exchanged with each report.
 The adjutant commands Parade, REST and then assumes Parade Rest themselves. If a band is
present, about 30 seconds before reveille, the adjutant commands ATTENTION, directs SOUND
REVEILLE, commands Present, ARMS, and then faces about. The adjutant’s Salute is the signal
for the band to sound reveille and to fire the morning gun. When reveille is sounded by a recording,
the call ATTENTION is sounded about 30 seconds before reveille. This ensures that the adjutant
has sufficient time to command the units to Present, ARMS before the first note of reveille.

13-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Retreats and Reveilles



After the last note of reveille has sounded, the adjutant terminates their Salute, faces about,
commands Order, ARMS, and then directs TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR UNITS. The adjutant
returns all Salutes with one Salute. This terminates the ceremony.

Note. When a unit conducts the reveille ceremony not as a member of a major command, battalion,
or company, the sequence of events remains the same except the unit commander gives all
commands.

COMMAND REVEILLE HISTORY
13-7. Command reveille is conducted with all members of the command present. Normally, command
reveille is conducted by a battalion or larger unit. Command reveille was conducted as a troop in 1812 and
was used to muster the unit or for roll call.

COMMAND REVEILLE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
13-8. The sequence of events for conducting command reveille are discussed herein:
 The unit is formed in a line formation facing the flag, if possible. Subunits may be in mass
formation. Subunits are commanded to Attention at the approach of the commander and their staff.
 The COT takes their post two steps in front of and centered on their staff, commands Forward,
MARCH, and marches their staff to a position centered on and in front of the line of troops. The
COT gives the proper commands to halt their staff in a position facing the line of troops.
 As soon as the staff is halted by the COT, the adjutant moves (without command) from their
position with the staff to a position midway between the COT and the line of unit commanders.
The adjutant commands Present, ARMS, faces the COT, salutes, and reports “Sir or Ma’am, the
battalion (brigade) is formed.”
 The COT returns the Salute and directs the adjutant to receive the reports. The adjutant faces about
and commands Order, ARMS and REPORT.
 Unit commanders salute and report, in succession from right to left, “Sir or Ma’am, ____
Company, all present or accounted for.” The adjutant returns each unit commander’s Salute.
After all unit commanders have reported, the adjutant faces the COT, salutes, and reports “Sir or
Ma’am, all present or accounted for.” The COT returns the Salute and directs the adjutant to
publish the orders.
 The adjutant faces about without saluting and commands ATTENTION TO ORDERS. The
adjutant then reads any orders or makes any announcements the COT wishes to publish. The
adjutant, on completion of the publishing of orders, faces about and takes their post with the staff
without saluting.
 When the adjutant is in position, the left flank staff member commands Right, FACE; Forward,
MARCH; Column Left, MARCH; Column Left, MARCH. When the staff is centered on the
COT, they then command Staff, HALT; Left, FACE. About 30 seconds before the sounding of
reveille, the COT commands Present, ARMS, executes About Face and commands Staff, Present,
ARMS. Reveille is then sounded either by record, field music, or band as the flag is raised.
 At the first note of “Reveille,” the morning gun is fired. After the last note of music, the COT
commands Staff, Order, ARMS, executes About Face, and commands Order, ARMS; they then
direct, TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR UNITS. The unit commanders salute. The COT returns all
Salutes with one Salute. They then march their staff away or dismiss them. This terminates the
ceremony.

May

TC 3-21.5

13-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 14

Funerals
The funerals of Soldiers, more than any other ceremony, have followed an old pattern
as the living honor the brave dead. Military funeral honors reflects the high regard and
respect accorded to military service and demonstrates military professionalism to the
Nation. Military funeral honors is how the Soldiers and leaders of this great Nation
show their gratitude for those who faithfully defended this country, during times of
both war and peace.

SECTION I – HISTORY
14-1. Funeral services of great magnificence evolved as custom (from what is known about early Christian
mourning) in the 6th century. To this day, no religious ceremonies are conducted with more pomp than those
intended to commemorate the departed.
14-2. The first general mourning proclaimed in America was on the death of Benjamin Franklin in 1791.
The second was the death of George Washington in 1799. The deep and widespread grief occasioned by the
death of the first President assembled a great number of people for the purpose of paying him a last tribute
of respect. On 18 December 1799 attended by military honors and the simplest but grandest ceremonies of
religion, his body was deposited in the family vault at Mount Vernon, Virginia.
14-3. Several military traditions employed today have been brought forward from the past:
 Reversed arms, displayed by one opponent on the battlefield, signaled that a truce was requested
so that the dead and wounded could be carried off and the dead buried.
 Today’s customary three volleys fired over a grave probably originated as far back as the Roman
Empire. The Roman funeral rites of casting dirt three times on the coffin constituted the “burial.”
It was customary among the Romans to call the dead three times by name, which ended the funeral
ceremony, after which the friends and relatives of the deceased pronounced the word “vale”
(farewell) three times as they departed from the tomb. In more recent history, three musket volleys
were fired to announce that the burying of the dead was completed and the burial party was ready
for battle again.
 The custom of using a caisson to carry a coffin most likely had its origins in the 1800s when
horse-drawn caissons that pulled artillery pieces also doubled as a conveyance to clear fallen
Soldiers from the battlefield.
 In the mid to late 1800s a funeral procession of a mounted officer or enlisted Service member was
accompanied by a riderless horse in mourning caparison followed by a hearse. It was also a custom
to have the boots of the deceased thrown over the saddle with heels to the front signifying that
their march was ended.

SECTION II – GENERAL INFORMATION
14-4. Military funerals have been an Army requirement for quite some time, and rightfully so. Military
members have honorably served their country and have perished in the defense of the Nation, or later on in
life. The service and commitment to the country and their sacrifices are acknowledged by dedicating
resources and personnel to assist in the funeral or graveside ceremony and provide burial honors. Soldiers on
active duty status, retirees, and Medal of Honor recipients receive a highly trained and dedicated nine-person
detail to provide burial support and honors. Veterans receive a minimum of a two military personnel detail
to fold and present a folded American flag to the next of kin (NOK), and a bugler to play “Taps” at the

May

TC 3-21.5

14-1

Chapter 14

gravesite ceremony. Special circumstances may require a special full honor detail with more dedicated
resources and personnel.
14-5. Every funeral service is going to be different and the funeral honor team’s requirement are going to
continually change with each funeral. The funeral director, the family or person authorized to direct
disposition of human remains (PADD), the casualty assistance officer (known as CAO), and the chaplain or
clergy are all going to coordinate the funeral ceremony for a fallen Soldier and family member and they are
all going to have certain requests. The full honor detail requires the team to salute the fallen upon arrival,
carry the casket or urn to the gravesite, have the chaplain participate in final words and remarks, salute the
fallen once again, fire three-round volley, play “Taps,” fold flag, and present flag to NOK. The two-person
detail will, at a minimum, salute the fallen upon entering the gravesite or final resting place, play “Taps,”
fold and then present Color to NOK or PADD.
Note. The acronym NCOIC is used when discussing the role for the noncommissioned officer in
charge of the funeral honor team. Sometimes that role will be filled by an officer in charge (OIC),
but for simplicity and clarity we will use the term NCOIC throughout this chapter.
14-6. Funeral detail NCOICs will develop their own unit funeral detail standard operating procedures (SOPs)
meeting the minimum Soldier requirements, and then be certified by their unit CSM. The detail NCOIC will
train their team to conduct all aspects of the funeral team’s functions flawlessly. Every gravesite is going to
be different just like every chapel, but it is the fundamentals that the honor team must get right. Each separate
detail team (pallbearers, firing team, bugler, flag folders, and NCOIC) must know the procedures and conduct
them as accurately and flawlessly as possible. The firing party must move as one, fire as one, stack weapons
with everyone being in sync with one another. The flag must be folded and presented perfectly. The presenter
must memorize and rehearse their tasks until it becomes second nature to them. The goal of the funeral honor
team is to provide military burial honors as prestigiously and gracefully as possible.
14-7. The firing detail will be between five and eight personnel with one of the detail members giving
commands and acting as the firing party NCOIC. If the unit SOP establishes five firers for each funeral team
with one NCOIC, then there are six people for pallbearer duties if a separate detail is not provided. The
funeral detail NCOIC must be the one to determine the best way to provide gravesite honors and then rehearse
and practice their functions until it becomes muscle memory.

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITIES
14-8. The Casualty Assistance Center (known as CAC) coordinates burial honors, for deceased Army
personnel, including active duty and retired personnel as well as eligible RCs and veterans when requested
by the family. Active duty Soldiers and retirees will receive burial with full military funeral honors, provided
by a nine-person funeral detail as described in paragraph 14-20. Eligible members of the RC and veterans
will also receive funeral honors from a two-person detail. Medal of Honor recipients are entitled to full
military funeral honors, regardless of status.
14-9. The command or activity responsible for providing military funeral honors will ensure there is an active
search for a bugler (see AR 600-25). A live bugler is preferred for all active duty and veteran funeral services;
every effort must be made to obtain a live bugler to play “Taps” (see AR 600-25). However, if a live bugler
is unavailable “Taps” may be played on a ceremonial bugle which is a suitable electronic device. Electronic
devices are only used as a last resort. For assistance searching for a live bugler visit the U.S. Army Bands
website. The family of the deceased (or its representative) may request another clergyman to officiate in lieu
of a military chaplain. A civilian clergyman can conduct all religious elements of a military funeral or
interment. More information about religious support to funerals and memorial events can be found in
ATP 1-05.02.

14-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals

14-10. The desires of the family are given the fullest consideration possible in the selection of elements
involved, but the funeral is conducted as prescribed in this manual. For further information, consult
AR 600-25, chapter 7. The responsibilities of the individuals involved in a military funeral are as follows:
 The CAC—
 Receives requests for funeral details and controls funeral operations within their area of
responsibility.
 Coordinates funeral details with funeral directors and funeral planners.
 Issues funeral ceremonial flag that will be presented to designated family members.
 Controls a post duty roster for funeral honor team requests.
 Issues orders to funeral honor teams to use for travel, transportation, and lodging requests.
 Briefs funeral honors NCOIC.
 Requests bugler support for funeral honor teams.
 Confirms criteria requirements met for burial honors.
 Funeral detail NCOIC or OIC. Funeral detail NCOICs—
 Provide their name and contact information and the bugler pick-up time to the CAC after
notification of funeral detail.
 Train their team to perform military burial honors flawlessly.
 Inspect burial honor team’s uniform.
 Request and issue white gloves to be worn during the ceremony.
 Request transportation for the funeral detail through the transportation division.
 Coordinate specifics with the funeral home, clergy, and chapel concerned.
 Coordinate the use of a portable compact disc (CD) player for playing “Taps,” if needed.
 Ensure all personnel participating in the funeral detail arrive at the designated place in
sufficient time to make final coordination.
 Conduct a reconnaissance of the chapel, cemetery, and gravesite location.
 Conduct at least one full dress rehearsal at the burial site, prior to the arrival of all funeral
attendees.
 Conduct link up with the CAO to confirm the issue and receiving of the burial flag.
 Understand exactly what the family wants the military to provide during the funeral
(pallbearers, chaplain, and flag presentation to which family members).
 Will conduct the final inspection of the burial flag, and issue it to NOK.
 Is overall responsible for each team member's performance while they conduct burial honors.
 The CAO—
 Coordinates the ceremonial aspects of the funeral with the PADD.
 Advises and assists the PADD of the deceased Service member in funeral arrangements.
 Conducts link up with the funeral NCOIC prior to the funeral service.
 Ensures the military honor team arrives at the proper location and conducts military burial
honors appropriately.
 Identifies the primary NOK of the deceased for the NCOIC for flag presentation.
 Memorizes condolence remarks if they choose to assist the NCOIC for flag presentation.
 Records military burial honor team’s performance and signs the funeral honor detail’s
paperwork along with the funeral director (if required).
 Ensures the chaplain receives a flag from the installation CAC, funeral director, or local post
office.
 Prepares to brief family dynamics, funeral specifics, and special requests to the general officer
in attendance during a theater-related death.

May

TC 3-21.5

14-3

Chapter 14




Accompanies family to the funeral service.
Commanding officer. The commanding officer or their representative, in coordination with the
PADD, cemetery superintendent, and the funeral director makes the funeral arrangements and
supervises the conduct of the funeral.

PERSONAL CONDUCT
14-11. When honorary pallbearers are desired, they are selected by the family of the deceased, or its
representative, or by the commanding officer if the family wishes. As a rule, no more than 12 honorary
pallbearers should be selected.
14-12. At a military funeral, persons in military uniform attending in their individual capacity face the
casket and execute the Hand Salute at the following times: when honors, if any, are sounded; at any time the
casket is being moved as seen in figure 14-1 (unless the uniformed persons are walking); during cannon
salutes, if sounded; during the firing of volleys; and while “Taps” is being played:
 Honorary pallbearers in uniform conform to those instructions when not in motion.
 Military personnel in civilian clothes in the above cases, and during the service at the grave, stand
at Attention, uncover, and hold the headdress over the left shoulder with the right hand over the
heart. If no headdress is worn, the right hand is held over the heart.

14-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals

Figure 14-1. Honors rendered during moving of casket from hearse
14-13. During the religious graveside service, all personnel bow their heads at the words “Let us pray” for
acknowledgment of religious activities. Those choosing to pray could pray as they choose. All mourners at
graveside, except the active pallbearers, follow the example of the officiating chaplain. If the chaplain
uncovers, they uncover; if the chaplain remains covered, they remain covered. When the officiating chaplain
wears a biretta (clerical headpiece) during the graveside service, all personnel, as indicated above, uncover.
When the officiating chaplain wears a yarmulke (Jewish skull cap), all personnel remain covered.
14-14. The remains of a member of the armed forces who died while on active duty may be consigned
directly to a national cemetery from a military installation. In such cases, the cemetery superintendent will,
regardless of time of arrival, if not otherwise provided for, engage a funeral director to receive the remains
at the common carrier terminal, hold the remains at their establishment until the date of the funeral, if
necessary, and deliver the remains to the cemetery. The superintendent will not authorize a funeral director
to render any other service incident to the interment.

May

TC 3-21.5

14-5

Chapter 14

14-15. The word “chapel” is interpreted to include the church, home, or other place where services are held,
other than the service at the grave. The word “casket” is interpreted to include the receptacle containing the
cremated remains of the deceased.

PRESENTATION OF THE FLAG
14-16. Funeral honors ceremonies conducted by the Army will use the standardized DOD language for the
presentation of the flag to the designated flag recipient. The verbiage below will be used when presenting the
U.S. flag during the funeral service. The Service member presenting the flag to NOK of the eligible
beneficiary will be from the parent Service branch and oversee the burial honor team.

Use when presenting the U.S. flag during the funeral service:
“On behalf of the President of the United States, (the U.S. Army, the U.S. Marine
Corps, the U.S. Navy, the U.S. Air Force, or the U.S. Coast Guard), and a grateful
Nation, please accept this flag as a symbol of our appreciation for your loved one's
honorable and faithful service.”
14-17. In some situations, there will be more than one family member to be presented the American flag
during the gravesite service and the NCOIC will use the CAO or military chaplain to provide the secondary
folded flag to the NCOIC for presentation. The NCOIC will coordinate with the CAO or military chaplain to
move to their location, face each other, salute as mentioned later in this chapter, and then present the flag to
the next individual.

SECTION III – TYPES OF HONORS AND CLASSES OF MILITARY FUNERALS
14-18. Military funerals are divided into two classes: chapel service, followed by movement to the grave or
place of local disposition with the prescribed escort; and graveside service only. Chapel service may not be
requested by the funeral director or PADD, but they may request military honors done graveside then funeral
honor teams will only have to perform their duties at the gravesite.

TYPES OF MILITARY FUNERAL HONORS
14-19. The Army will either provide full honors with a minimum of a nine-Soldier detail team, or veteran
honors with a minimum of a two-person detail. Circumstances sometimes require a special full honor detail
to be assembled for a military funeral. Burial honors and the composition of funeral escorts are described in
chapter 7 of AR 600-25.

FULL HONORS (NINE-SOLDIER DETAIL)
14-20. Full military honors are rendered in the event of the death of a Soldier on active duty, retirees, and
Medal of Honor recipients (regardless of status). Full military funeral honors consist of a nine-Soldier detail
led by an NCOIC (with the appropriate rank and branch of the deceased), six Soldiers to act as pallbearers
and conduct firing party duties (dual function), a bugler, and a military chaplain.
14-21. The funeral detail NCOIC makes all coordination with the CAC and makes all necessary
arrangements with the members of the funeral detail. The pallbearers are responsible for the carrying of the
casket from the hearse to the location of the ceremony, and to the burial site, when requested. The pallbearers
could serve in a dual function role responsible to act as the firing party during full military honors, when
needed. The bugler is responsible for the playing of “Taps” during the burial site ceremony, at the conclusion
of the benediction later discussed in this chapter. If resources permit, a larger funeral detail may be provided,
which is composed of all the elements of the nine-person funeral detail, and may also include the following:
 Color guard.
 Separate firing party (no more than eight, or less than five rifle-bearers).

14-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals






Hearse (caisson).
Honorary pallbearers.
Personal Colors (if appropriate).
Escort unit(s) (appropriate for the rank of the deceased).

VETERANS HONORS (TWO-PERSON DETAIL)
14-22. A two-person detail consists of an OIC or NCOIC (appropriate for the rank of the deceased), an
enlisted Soldier, and a bugler to play “Taps.” The two-person military funeral honor team performs flag
folding and flag presentation to NOK, or designated personnel for a deceased military veteran. The flag will
be presented by a member of the veteran's branch of service and that member is overall in charge of the honor
team. “Taps” will be played by a live bugler or an additional detail member using an electronic device. If no
bugler is obtained prior to the funeral ceremony then coordination will be done to use an electronic recording.

SPECIAL FULL HONOR TEAMS (TWENTY-ONE SOLDIER DETAIL)
14-23. Special full honor teams are often composed for special circumstance or when Army leadership are
tasked or compelled to provide additional honor ceremony support for situations such as the death of a Soldier
killed in action, general officer, and CSM or sergeant major. Special full honor teams will often be led by
senior NCOs, have more personnel and support provided by the tasked unit, and have senior leaders in
attendance. The person who presents the flag to NOK or PADD must be the same rank or higher than the
Soldier or veteran being laid to rest.
14-24. Special full honor teams could be assembled with escorts, Color guards, pallbearers, firing detail,
and band personnel. Special full honor ceremonies could have flyovers depending if the Soldier or veteran
being laid to rest meets the criteria established in AR 600-25. Special full honors are sometimes a significant
event possibly covered by local and national media organizations.
14-25. Special full honors for a general officer in active service will require at the gravesite service a
seven-person firing party with one NCOIC to fire the three-round volley. General officers will also have a
cannon salute prior to the final benediction with the number of rounds prescribed in AR 600-25, table 3-1.

CLASSES OF MILITARY FUNERALS
14-26. Military funerals are divided into two classes: chapel service, followed by movement to the grave or
place of local disposition with the prescribed escort; and graveside service only. This manual will provide
the procedures for each class of military funerals with two different types (full military honors and veteran
honors).

FUNERAL WITH CHAPEL SERVICE (FULL MILITARY HONORS—NINE-PERSON FUNERAL
HONORS DETAIL)
14-27. Use the following procedures to conduct a funeral in a chapel with full military honors. Most military
honor teams will not have separate pallbearers and firing party so if the family wants Soldiers to serve as
pallbearers than the honor team will have a dual function role. This manual will address both funeral team
configurations. Many funeral homes have a chapel on location and the funeral detail NCOIC will need to
coordinate with the funeral director of their involvement at the service. The following is conducted at the
chapel if the Service member is being brought to the chapel from another location, or their presence and
service is requested to carry the deceased from the chapel at the conclusion of the chapel service:
 At the chapel, the funeral detail forms as shown in figure 14-2 on page 14-8. The NCOIC has all
participants at the position of Parade Rest. The NCOIC and the pallbearers will be on line at
normal intervals facing the chapel and close to the designated arrival point of the conveyance. The
NCOIC positions themselves at the end of the pallbearers so that the conveyance passes them first
as it approaches.
 If resources permit and there is a separate firing party, then the firing party will form two ranks
facing each other and form an aisle from the conveyance to the entrance of the chapel.

May

TC 3-21.5

14-7

Chapter 14

Figure 14-2. Funeral detail formation




14-8

Members of the immediate family, relatives, friends of the deceased, and the CAO will be seated
in the chapel before the conveyance arrives and the casket is taken into the chapel. Members of
the immediate family and relatives occupy pews (seats) to the right (front) of the chapel or where
designated from the funeral director.
As the conveyance comes into view, the funeral detail NCOIC will command the pallbearers to
ATTENTION and render a solo hand salute as the conveyance approaches. Once the conveyance
stops in front of the chapel, the NCOIC will automatically Order Arms—
 If a separate firing party exists, the funeral detail NCOIC addresses the entire detail and
commands Escort, ATTENTION; Pallbearers, Center, FACE. On the command Center,
FACE, just the pallbearers face the designated arrival point of the conveyance (see
figure 14-2).
 As the conveyance approaches, the NCOIC commands Present, ARMS and salutes to honor
the national Color draped over the casket, and commands Order, ARMS after the conveyance
halts.

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals






If necessary, the NCOIC repositions the pallbearers at the rear of the conveyance as seen in
figure 14-3.
After the funeral director opens the doors of the hearse, the NCOIC Present Arms until the casket
enters the chapel:
 If a firing party is present, they will also Present Arms as the door to the hearse is open.
 The firing party will remain in Present Arms until the NCOIC commands Order, ARMS.
The senior pallbearer, designated position 5, and the pallbearer in position 1 grasp the handles at
the head of the casket. (The union of the flag is draped over this end.) They walk backwards,
pulling the casket from the conveyance, allowing the pallbearers in positions 2 and 3 to grasp
handles on the casket. The pallbearers handle the remains in a dignified, reverent, and military
manner, ensuring the casket is carried level and feet first at all times (see figure 14-1 on page 14-5).

Figure 14-3. Carrying the casket inside

May

TC 3-21.5

14-9

Chapter 14










For funerals where there is a separate firing party, once the casket is borne between the firing party
members, and taken into the chapel, the NCOIC commands Order, ARMS. The firing party
departs under the control of the firing party commander and travels to the gravesite if
transportation is available. Once at the gravesite, the firing party prepares for the gravesite
ceremony. The bugler, if not already at the gravesite, travels with the firing party.
Having entered the chapel, the pallbearers carry the casket to the front of the church. If a church
truck is available, the casket is placed on the truck at the entrance of the chapel and pushed to the
front by the senior pallbearer and one other. The pallbearers then take seats, as directed by the
chaplain, until the conclusion of the chapel service.
For information on how to display the U.S. flag on the casket, either closed or half-couch, consult
DA Pam 638-2, appendix E.
After the service, the pallbearers either carry the casket or push it on a church truck from the front
of the chapel to the exit. The casket is placed directly into the conveyance with the senior and
number 1 pallbearers being the last to release their casket handles. The funeral director secures the
doors of the conveyance.
The pallbearers board their transportation and travel to the interment site to prepare for the
graveside ceremony. The funeral party travels in the following order (see figure 14-4):
 Clergy.
 Conveyance with casket.
 Active pallbearers.
 Personal flag (if appropriate).
 Family and CAO.
 Friends.

Note. The funeral detail will need to swiftly move directly to the gravesite to establish where to
place the firing party or to stack weapons if the firing party is performing a dual function as the
pallbearers. The NCOIC will place the bugler, and then prepare the detail to perform their gravesite
duties. The funeral detail NCOIC must know the exact location of the cemetery and gravesite to
eliminate the possibilities of issues.

14-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals

Figure 14-4. Funeral procession


May

After the procession is formed, it travels directly to the gravesite. Upon arrival, the funeral detail
NCOIC positions themselves between the chaplain and the head of the gravesite. The pallbearers
form and remove the casket from the conveyance the same as previously outlined (see figure 14-5
on page 14-12).

TC 3-21.5

14-11

Chapter 14

Figure 14-5. Graveside formation



14-12

Once the casket is removed from the conveyance, the NCOIC commands the firing party (if
resources permit a separate firing party) and bugler to Present Arms.
The pallbearers carry the casket, feet first, to the grave. Upon reaching the grave, the casket is
placed on the lowering device. The pallbearers then execute the appropriate facing movement and
march off in two ranks toward the designated firing party location if they are conducting dual
functions. While marching, the pallbearers merge into single file in order to form one rank,
45 degrees off the foot of the casket. The firing party commander is positioned on the opposite
flank or centered to the rear of the formation (see figure 14-6 on page 14-14). At that time, the

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals









May

firing party commander will command the firing party to unstack their weapons, which have been
pre-positioned under guard at the gravesite, and then to stand at Parade Rest during the gravesite
service:
 If there is a separate firing party, then the pallbearers will move to a predesignated location
to observe the funeral ceremony.
 The pallbearers will stand at parade rest until the three-round volley and the playing of “Taps.”
When the casket is placed over the grave, and the pallbearers march from the casket to become
the firing party or spectators, the NCOIC terminates their salute and moves from their place at the
head of the casket in order to permit the chaplain to conduct the graveside service. The NCOIC
should move to a location where they still face the family but does not interfere with the service.
Once in position, they assume the position of Parade Rest until the service is completed.
After Parade Rest has been commanded, the chaplain conducts the graveside service. At the
conclusion of the benediction, the NCOIC returns to their position at the head of the casket, renders
a hand salute, which also cues the firing party commander to commence the firing party sequence,
as outlined in paragraph 14-40. The CAO and other military members in attendance also execute
Present Arms. The firing party fires three volleys of blank cartridges, assumes the position of
Present Arms at the command of the firing party commander, and remains in this position until
the conclusion of “Taps.” The bugler, positioned near the firing party and in view of NOK, sounds
“Taps” immediately following the firing party assuming Present Arms.
At the conclusion of “Taps,” the firing party comes to Order Arms at the command of the firing
party commander, and if they are performing a dual function they restack their weapons in a
ceremonial manner. After the stacking of weapons is completed, the firing party forms into two
ranks and marches in the most direct route back to the lowering device platform so they can
perform the ceremonial folding of the interment flag. The CAO and military members in
attendance terminate their Salute:
 If there are a separate firing party and pallbearer detail, then the pallbearers will be the
designated members to conduct the folding of the flag.
 The senior pallbearer will quietly march the detail directly to their original positions around
the casket.
The pallbearers raise the flag from the casket and hold it in a horizontal position waist high and
complete the folding sequence without letting the flag touch the casket as seen in figure 14-6 on
page 14-14. As the flag is folded, it is passed to the senior pallbearer at the head of the casket, who
makes the final tuck and inspection. (See appendix I for detailed information on folding the flag.)

TC 3-21.5

14-13

Chapter 14

Figure 14-6. Flag folding detail






14-14

After the flag is folded, the senior pallbearer executes a Right Face and places the flag at chest
level, point of flag away from the individual receiving it, and into the hands of the funeral detail
NCOIC. The NCOIC conducts a final inspection of the flag, and then salutes the flag for 3 seconds
before accepting it from the senior pallbearer. The NCOIC could fix any issues with the flag prior
to rendering the Hand Salute. The senior pallbearer salutes the flag for a total of 9 seconds
(3-seconds up, 3-second salute, and then 3 seconds to lower) after presenting it to the NCOIC.
The NCOIC allows the senior pallbearer to quietly march the flag-folding detail back to their
positions at the firing detail location where they will quietly unstack weapons and stand at Parade
Rest until the completion of the ceremony, and guests depart the location, if time is not an issue.
The NCOIC then moves by the most direct route to NOK who is to receive the flag. The NCOIC
spins the flag clockwise with their left hand over their right hand, point toward them and away
from the person receiving it. The NCOIC kneels down in front of NOK for flag presentation and
renders the remarks, “On behalf of the President of the United States, the United States Army, and
a grateful Nation, please accept this flag as a symbol of our appreciation for your loved one’s
honorable and faithful service.” After the flag is presented, the NCOIC stands at the Position of
Attention, and salutes the flag one final time. The NCOIC executes the proper facing movement
and then moves directly to their original position. The flag is handed to the designated person as
seen in figure 14-7.

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals

Figure 14-7. Presentation of the flag


Once the ceremony is complete and all guests have vacated the area, the firing party NCOIC has
each member of the firing detail clear their weapons. The NCOIC is responsible for ensuring all
weapons have been properly cleared and then has the detail police up all brass.

GRAVESIDE SERVICE
14-28. For a funeral without chapel service, all elements of a military funeral are present and used as
previously described in paragraph 14-27. However, if troops are not conveniently available, or if the family
wishes to eliminate other elements, the following are used (see figure 14-8 on page 14-16):
 Military clergy (if available and requested).
 OIC or NCOIC, appropriate to the grade of the deceased (see AR 600-25).
 Active pallbearers or firing party.
 Separate firing party (if resources permit).
 Bugler.
 Personal Color bearer (if appropriate).
Note. These elements are in position at the graveside before the arrival of the remains.

May

TC 3-21.5

14-15

Chapter 14

Figure 14-8. Graveside service

VETERANS HONORS AT GRAVESIDE SERVICE (TWO-PERSON DETAIL)
14-29. A two-person honor detail provides graveside honors by the playing of “Taps” and the flag folding
and presentation to the appropriate family members. If a live bugler is unavailable, the designated person
responsible for the funeral honors may authorize instead the playing of a recording of “Taps” and will ensure
that a quality recording is available (see AR 600-25). If a live bugler is not available then an additional detail
member will be needed to play “Taps.” That bugler will need to acquire a bugle, two sets of batteries, and an
extra flag to use during the ceremony if the funeral director did not get one. The use of an alternative
electronic device is authorized although highly discouraged. Use the following procedures to conduct a
military funeral with a two-person honor detail:
 Once the Army CAC is alerted, it arranges for the two-person military honor detail to arrive at the
interment site at the appropriate time to provide graveside honors:
 The leader of the detail has many responsibilities to include contacting the funeral director to
confirm the date, time, and location of the interment service. The leader ensures that the
funeral director has obtained a flag for the ceremony. The detail leader will bring a backup
flag to the ceremony in case it is needed.
 The leader confirms and coordinates participation of the second member of the detail.
 When all coordination is completed, the final pre-interment activity is to train and rehearse
the detail. A mandatory training item is to carefully watch a video demonstration tape
provided by DOD to each installation.
 On the day of the interment ceremony, the detail leader confirms arrangements with the
funeral director and coordinates necessary cues at the interment site.

14-16

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals










May

The two-person detail will line up on the curbside with their backs towards the gravesite, side
by side.
The rendition of “Taps” may be by performed by a bugler or by an electronic device:
 The CAC actively searches for a bugler (military or civilian). Bugler support may be from an
Army band (Active or RC), contracted, or voluntary.
 If a live bugler is not available, an additional person will have to perform the role as a bugler
using a digital bugle. The CAC issues a digital bugle that plays a prerecorded “Taps.” Ensure
the bugle has two sets of batteries.
 The person playing the bugle should use the same precision that an Army bugler is trained to
perform. See TC 1-19.10, appendix F, for the proper way to hold the instrument and how to
execute the manual of instruments.
 If a bugler is not available, the CAC uses the high-quality recording of the U.S. Army Band
bugler provided by the Office of the Secretary of Defense on CD. Many national and private
cemeteries have sound systems that play “Taps” at the interment site. However, CACs cannot
assume availability of such systems and must have enough high-quality, portable CD players
to provide their own sound system at funerals. (A portable CD player that can be easily heard
by all attendees at the interment ceremony is recommended.) Before departing for a funeral,
the detail leader must determine if a sound system is available or if the CAC must provide a
sound system to the honors detail.
The detail arrives at the interment site early and conducts a reconnaissance and rehearsal. Part of
the reconnaissance is the selection of a location for the bugler or CD player that will sound “Taps.”
The detail leader sets up and tests the CD player, ensuring the unit and its remote controls are
working properly and that it is out of sight of the family:
 When everything is prepared, the detail leader positions the detail in their designated place
before the arrival of the funeral cortege. The detail leader positions themselves near the
recording device; the other members(s) will be positioned near the foot of the grave.
 The leader brings the team to Attention and Present Arms as the remains are carried to the
gravesite by civilian pallbearers. The detail leader commands Order, ARMS when the casket
is placed on the lowering device.
 At the conclusion of the committal service, the detail leader directs the bugler to sound “Taps”
electronically. Installations must ensure that honor detail training directs that the digital bugle
movements are executed to Army bands military occupational specialty standard, or the
recording device be positioned out of sight of the family and be played in a dignified manner
as shown in the training video from DOD.
 The person playing the digital bugle should use the same precision that an Army band bugler
is trained to perform. See TC 1-19.10, appendix F, for the proper way to hold the instrument
and how to execute the manual of instruments.
 Although the CD player should be out of sight, activating the “play” button should be
performed with precision and distinction by bending over, activating the recorder, and then
stepping back one step and assuming the Position of Attention.
 Each detail member will Present Arms during “Taps” and will execute Order Arms at its
completion. At the conclusion of “Taps,” the detail leader ensures the recording device is
turned off and then proceeds in a dignified and military manner to the head of the casket.
For flag folding, upon conclusion of “Taps,” the representative and their assistant move closer to
the casket. When the flag is secured and raised, the detail takes three steps away from the mourners
and folds the flag. (See appendix I for detailed information on folding the flag.) When the flag is
properly folded, the detail leader inspects and then salutes the flag for 3 seconds. The assistant
hands the flag to the detail leader, salutes the flag for 3 seconds, and posts to a position next to the
side or rear of the family.
After the assistant departs, the detail leader presents the flag to NOK using the following wording:
“On behalf of the President of the United States, the United States Army, and a grateful Nation,
please accept this flag as a symbol of our appreciation for your loved one’s honorable and faithful
service.” After presenting the flag, the detail leader moves to the Position of Attention and

TC 3-21.5

14-17

Chapter 14





conducts a slow salute to the flag. They then execute a facing movement and march out of sight
from the funeral ceremony. Presentation of the flag is previously discussed on pages 14-14 and
14-15.
Not all funerals will be authorized the human resources as outlined in this sequence of events;
therefore, the NCOIC will extract those portions of the sequence that apply to their funeral detail
contingent.
Additions to an element of the funeral detail not specifically addressed in this sequence of events
are not authorized. Requests for exceptions to policy will be directed to TRADOC.

SECTION IV – ADDITIONAL FUNERAL CONSIDERATIONS
14-30. Funeral details will have many other considerations which will have to be addressed by the NCOIC
or OIC. Although each funeral is similar in nature, there are many different events and considerations to be
aware of. Cremated remains, cannon salutes, and participation of aviation are a few of the funeral
considerations addressed during the planning and execution of a funeral.

CREMATED REMAINS
14-31. When the remains are cremated and the ashes interred with military honors, the previously stated
provisions, with necessary modifications, will govern:
 For all phases of the funeral, where the cremated remains are carried by hand, one pallbearer is
detailed to carry the receptacle (casket) containing the ashes and another is detailed to carry the
flag, folded into the shape of a cocked hat. The pallbearer carrying the flag is always positioned
to the right of the remains (see figure 14-9). When the receptacle is carried from the hearse into
the chapel and from the chapel to the hearse, these two pallbearers are the only participants in the
ceremony. During the procession to the gravesite, the receptacle and flag are carried by the two
pallbearers followed by four additional pallbearers. When the receptacle has been placed on the
gravesite, all six pallbearers unfold the flag and hold it over the grave. (Honors are the same as a
flag-draped casket.)

14-18

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals

Figure 14-9. Pallbearers for cremated remains





When the receptacle and flag are placed before the chancel of the chapel or transported to gravesite
by vehicle, the receptacle and folded flag are placed side by side. If the pallbearers walk to the
gravesite, the two bearers who carried the receptacle and the flag join the other four pallbearers
already pre-positioned on either side of the hearse.
When no hearse is used, suitable transportation is provided for the receptacle, flag bearers, and the
other pallbearers.
When the remains are moved to a crematory and the ashes are to be interred with military honors
at a later time, the ceremony consists only of the escort to the crematory. All personnel salute as
the remains are carried into the crematory. The firing of volleys and the sounding of “Taps” are
omitted. When the funeral ceremony is held at the crematory, and when no further honors are
anticipated, the volleys are fired and “Taps” is sounded at the discretion of the commanding
officer.

Note. In this situation, the flag is carried left hand over right hand with the point forward.

May

TC 3-21.5

14-19

Chapter 14

CEREMONY BEFORE SHIPMENT OF REMAINS
14-32. When the remains of a deceased Soldier are moved to a railway station or other point for shipment
to another place for interment or final disposition, funeral services are modified as necessary. When no further
military honors are anticipated at the place of interment or final disposition, the volleys are fired and “Taps”
sounded at the discretion of the commanding officer. When military honors are anticipated at the place of
final disposition, the volleys and “Taps” are omitted.

CANNON SALUTE
14-33. When the funeral of a general officer on the active or retired list, who was entitled to a cannon salute,
takes place at or near a military installation, guns equal to the number to which the officer was entitled (see
AR 600-25) may be fired at noon on the day of the funeral. The military installation mentioned in general
orders will fire the prescribed salutes. Immediately preceding the benediction, a cannon salute corresponding
to the grade of the deceased (see AR 600-25) is fired at 5-second intervals. Following the benediction, three
volleys of musketry are fired.

PARTICIPATION OF AVIATION
14-34. When aviation participates in a military funeral, it is timed so that the aircraft appear over the
procession. Requirements for aviation participation can be found in AR 600-25.

PARTICIPATION OF RESERVE COMPONENTS
14-35. The RC, along with the active Army, are required to participate in funeral details. The Army National
Guard (ARNG) and U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) have a single point of contact (POC) in each ARNG state
area command (known as STARC) or USAR regional support command (known as RSC) to which a request
for assistance can be made. When the active Army is unable to support the request, or it is more prudent for
the RC unit to provide honors, the CAC contacts the RC POC at either the STARC or RSC for military
funeral honors support. If the RC POC does not respond to the request for support within 2 hours, the CAC
should again contact the RC POC. When the RC is unable to support the request for assistance, the CAC is
responsible for providing the honors. The casualty and memorial affairs operations center, personnel
command will provide a list of RC POCs to the CACs. CACs should establish memorandums of agreement
with RC POCs and other military organizations within their area of responsibility specifying requirements
and responsibilities.

PARTICIPATION OF FRATERNAL OR PATRIOTIC
ORGANIZATIONS
14-36. The family or representative of the deceased may request fraternal or patriotic organizations, of
which the deceased was a member, to take part in the funeral service. With immediate family approval
fraternal or patriotic organizations may conduct graveside service at the conclusion of the military portion of
the ceremony, signified by the flag presentation to NOK and escort departure from the cemetery.

DUTIES OF THE CHAPLAIN
14-37. The chaplain takes their position in front of the chapel before the arrival of the remains. The chaplain
precedes the casket when it is carried from the hearse into the chapel and from the chapel to the hearse. While
the remains are being placed in the hearse, they stand at the rear and to the side facing the hearse. When the
chaplain is wearing vestments, they may, at their discretion, proceed from the chancel to the sacristy (vestry)
at the conclusion of the chapel service and divest, joining the procession before it moves from the chapel.
The chaplain then precedes the hearse to the graveside and precedes the casket to the grave.

14-20

TC 3-21.5

May

Funerals

PRELIMINARY ARRANGEMENTS
14-38. The OIC of a military funeral, the commander of the escort, the funeral director, and the
superintendent of the cemetery or their representative visit the places involved and make careful
arrangements before the time set for the funeral. They determine the positions at the grave for the various
elements of the funeral and arrange for traffic control.

FLORAL TRIBUTES
14-39. In the absence of the chaplain, the chaplain’s assistant helps the funeral director in arranging all
floral tributes in the chapel. The commanding officer or their representative coordinates the necessary
transportation with the funeral director for prompt transfer of floral tributes from the chapel to the gravesite.
The vehicle bearing the floral tributes is loaded promptly at the conclusion of the chapel service. It precedes
the funeral procession, moving as rapidly as practicable to the site of the grave. The funeral procession does
not move from the chapel until the vehicle carrying the floral tributes has cleared the escort. The funeral
director or the cemetery representative is responsible for removing cards and making a record that gives a
brief description of the floral piece pertaining to each card. After completion of the funeral services, the cards
and records are turned over to a member of the family of the deceased.

RULES FOR CEREMONIAL FIRING
14-40. For ceremonial firing, the firing party consists of not more than eight riflemen and not less than five
riflemen with one NCOIC (see figure 14-10 on page 14-22). The firing party is normally pre-positioned at
the gravesite and facing in the direction that allows it to fire directly over the grave. However, care should
be taken to ensure that rifles are fired at a 45-degree angle from the horizontal:
 To load—
 Magazines or clips are loaded with three rounds before forming the firing party.
 At the conclusion of the religious services or on the escort commander’s command, the
NCOIC commands With blank ammunition, LOAD. At the command LOAD, each
rifle-bearer executes Port Arms, faces to the half right, and moves their right foot 10 inches
to the right to a position that gives them a firm, steady stance. The rifle-bearer then chambers
a round, places the weapon in the safe position, and resumes Port Arms.
 To fire by volley—
 When the rifle-bearers have completed the movements and the weapons are locked, the
commands from the firing detail NCOIC are Ready, Aim, FIRE. At the command Ready,
each rifle-bearer moves the safety to the fire position. On the command Aim, the rifle is
shouldered with both hands with the muzzle to the front at an angle of 45 degrees from the
horizontal. On the command of execution FIRE, the trigger is squeezed quickly, and the
weapon is immediately returned to Port Arms.
 To continue the firing with weapons that function automatically (blank adapter), the
commands Aim and FIRE are given and executed as previously prescribed. To continue the
firing with weapons that must be manually operated to chamber another round (without blank
adapters), the commands Ready, Aim, FIRE are again given. On, the command Ready, each
rifle-bearer manually chambers the next round. The commands Aim and FIRE are then given
and executed as previously prescribed.
 When the third round has been fired and the riflemen have resumed Port Arms, the NCOIC
commands CEASE FIRING. Every rifle-bearer immediately place their weapon on safe,
assume the Position of Attention (at Port Arms), and face to the half left. From this position,
the firing party is commanded to Present Arms before the playing of “Taps.” After “Taps,”
they are commanded to Order Arms. The NCOIC executes a Right (Left) Face and remains
at Attention until the flag has been folded and saluted by the NCOIC of the funeral detail. At
this time, the firing party NCOIC executes a Right (Left) Face and commands Right (Left),
FACE; Port, ARMS; and Forward, MARCH. At the first halt, the rifles of the firing party
are cleared and inspected.

May

TC 3-21.5

14-21

Chapter 14

Figure 14-10. Position of fire, ceremonial firing

14-22

TC 3-21.5

May

Chapter 15

Colors
From the earliest times, warriors used a banner or other symbol to identify specific
units and to serve as a rallying point for troops. In medieval days, the standard or
banner was used to signal a general assault, which was generated by a cry of “Advance
your banners.” Until comparatively recent years, the flags that identified nations
usually were based on the personal or family heraldry of the reigning monarch or ruling
nobleman. As autocracies faded or disappeared, dynastic Colors were no longer
popular and national flags, as thought of today, came into being. These national flags,
such as the Union Jack of Great Britain, the TriColor of France, and the Stars and
Stripes, are relatively new to history.

SECTION I – HISTORY
15-1. Flags are almost as old as civilization itself. Imperial Egypt as well as the armies of Babylon, Chaldea,
and Assyria followed the Colors of their kings. The Old Testament frequently mentions banners and
standards. Many flags of different designs were present in parts of the American Colonies before the
Revolution. When the struggle for independence united the Colonies, the colonists wanted a single flag to
represent the new nation. The first flag borne by the Army as a representative of the Thirteen Colonies was
the Grand Union flag. It was raised over the Continental Army at Cambridge, Massachusetts, on 2 January
1776. That flag had the familiar 13 stripes (red and white) of the present flag, but the blue square contained
the Crosses of Saint George and Saint Andrew from the British flag.
15-2. The Stars and Stripes was born on 14 June 1777, two years to the day after the birth of the Army. On
that date, Congress resolved that the flag of the United States be 13 stripes, alternate red and white, and that
the union be 13 stars, white in a blue field, representing a new constellation. The arrangement of the stars on
the blue field was not specified:
 According to some historians, the Stars and Stripes was first raised over Fort Stanwix, New York,
on 3 August 1777. In that Army version of the flag, the stars were arranged in a circle. (The
U.S. Navy version had the stars arranged to form crosses similar to the British flag.)
 When Vermont and Kentucky joined the Union, the flag was modified so that there were 15 stars
and 15 stripes. It was that flag, flying triumphantly over Fort McHenry, Maryland, on 13 and 14
September 1814, which inspired Francis Scott Key to compose the verses of “The Star-Spangled
Banner.” That flag was the national banner from 1795 until 1818. Thus, when it was raised over
Tripoli by the Marines in 1805, it was the first U.S. flag to be hoisted over conquered territory in
the Old World. Later, it was flown by General Andrew Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans.
 Realizing that adding a stripe for each new state would soon spoil the appearance of the flag,
Congress passed a law in 1818 fixing the number of stripes at 13 and providing for the addition of
a star in the Blue Union for each new state. The star is to be added and the new flag to become
official on the Fourth of July following the admission of the new state to the Union.
 It was not until shortly before the Civil War that the Stars and Stripes became the national Color.
15-3. Before the Civil War, in lieu of a national Color, U.S. Soldiers carried a blue silk Color on which was
embroidered the arms of the United States, and an American eagle bearing a shield on its breast, and in its
talons an olive branch and arrows, signifying peace and war. After the national Color was authorized, the
organizational Color with the eagle became the regimental Color. Because of the high casualty rate among
the members of the Color party, plus the advent of modern weapons, the time-honored practice of carrying

May

TC 3-21.5

15-1

Chapter 15

the Colors in battle was discontinued. Today, the Colors, with battle streamers attached, join their unit in
formations during ceremonies to signify their presence during past battles.

SECTION II – THE COLOR AND COLORS
15-4. The national and organizational flags carried by Color-bearing units are called the national Color and
the organizational Color. When used singularly, the term “Color” implies the national Color. The plural term
“Colors” means the national and positional or organizational Colors. By regulation, the organizational Color
is not authorized a Salute; however, in the past some organizations have observed the custom of saluting the
organizational Color.
15-5. In garrison, the Colors are normally kept at the office or headquarters of the commanding officer. They
are escorted to and from the headquarters or office by the Color guard. In the field, the Colors are normally
displayed from reveille to retreat in front of the commanding officer’s tent or command post. During
inclement weather, they are cased and placed in the commanding officer’s office, headquarters, or tent.
15-6. Individuals or units passing or being passed by uncased Colors out of doors render honors. Individuals,
not part of a formation, salute six steps distance from the Colors and hold the Salute until they have passed
six steps beyond the Colors. The individual in charge of a formation calls the formation to ATTENTION
and Present, ARMS.
15-7. The Colors will be carried on all ceremonial occasions when two or more companies, honor guards, or
representative elements of a command participate. Traditionally, the CSM is responsible for the safeguarding,
care, and display of the organizational Color. The CSM is also responsible for the selection, training, and
performance of the Color bearers and Color guards.
15-8. During a review, parade, or honor guard ceremony, ordinarily only one national Color is present. The
national Color is given the honor position and is carried on the marching right of positional and organizational
Colors. The U.S. Army flag or the Army field flag (when authorized) is carried to the immediate left of the
national Color. The organizational Color of the senior headquarters sponsoring the ceremony is carried to the
left of the Army flag or field flag, if present. The Colors belonging to the headquarters conducting the
ceremonies are positioned on line with and centered on the command. Subordinate Color-bearing
organizations ordinarily carry only their organizational Colors (four steps to the rear of their staff). The
regulation for individual flags and distinguishing flags for general officers and other dignitaries is the same
as that for organizational Colors (see AR 840-10).
15-9. When the local commander wishes, or considers it more appropriate, they may authorize subordinate
Color-bearing organizations to carry their national Color with their organizational Colors behind their staffs.
Consideration must be given as to the number of times the spectators will be required to stand during the pass
in review. Also, consideration must be given to the frequency of Salutes required by the reviewing officer:
 Another method in which subordinate Color-bearing units may carry their Colors is to have them
participate in a massed Colors formation. Because of many complications caused by massed
Colors, units should prescribe a local SOP governing the desired procedures.
 Examples of complications include: organizational Colors losing their identity, order of
precedence, resizing of Color guards and bearers, uniformity when the first rank consists of five
Soldiers rather than four, and presenting a good appearance when returning to the formation after
being brought forward while keeping the national Color on the marching right.
15-10. When Colors are participating in a ceremony, they will be received and dismissed. Information
pertaining to Colors participating in a ceremony are described in paragraphs 15-20 and 15-24.

SALUTES
15-11. The national Color renders no Salute (dip). An exception to this rule is followed by naval vessels
when, upon receiving a Salute of this type from a vessel registered by a nation formally recognized by the
United States, the compliment must be returned.
15-12. The organizational Color Salutes (dips) in all military ceremonies while the national anthem, “To
the Color,” or a foreign national anthem is being played, and when rendering honors to the organizational

15-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors

commander or an individual of higher grade including foreign dignitaries of higher grade, but in no other
case. The U.S. Army flag is considered to be an organizational Color and, as such, is also dipped while the
national anthem, “To the Color,” or a foreign national anthem is being played, and when rendering honors to
the Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army, their direct representative, or an individual of equivalent or higher grade,
but in no other case:
 When marching, organizational Colors salute when six steps from the person entitled to the Salute.
 They are returned to the Carry position when six steps beyond the person.

COLOR GUARD
15-13. The Color guard consists of two (three) sergeants and two specialists or privates. It is an honor to be
selected as a member of the Color guard. The senior (Color) sergeant carries the national Color and
commands the Color guard. The senior (Color) sergeant gives the necessary commands for the movements
and for rendering honors. The uniform for Color guards should be the same as prescribed for participating
troops. In addition to the uniform, the Color guard should be provided white polyester dress gloves, uniform
neck scarves, and a white, black, or olive drab flag carrier. The flag carrier could be a single or double leather
or web strapped harness with a brass or chrome cup.
15-14. When battalions or brigades carry their organizational Colors in a ceremony as part of a larger
command, the battalion or brigade Color is carried four steps to the rear of the staff. A sergeant acts as Color
bearer and two experienced specialists or privates, selected by the battalion or brigade CSM, act as members
of the Color guard.
15-15. The Color guard is formed and Marched in one rank at Close Interval, the bearers in the center. They
do not execute Rear March or About Face. The Color guard marches at Right Shoulder Arms and executes
Facing movements by wheeling to the right or left. The command for a Facing movement is Right (Left)
Wheel, MARCH. To execute a Wheeling movement, the guard nearest the direction of turn serves as the
pivot point and executes the movement by marching in place and simultaneously turning in the new direction.
Other members shorten their steps and turn in an arc keeping abreast of each other to maintain alignment.
When the movement has been completed, each member automatically marches in place until the command
HALT or Forward, MARCH is given.
15-16. When passing in review, the Color guard executes Eyes Right at the prescribed saluting distance on
the command of the Color sergeant. The commands are Eyes, RIGHT and Ready, FRONT. The
organizational Color salutes at the command RIGHT and resumes the Carry at the command FRONT. The
guard on the right flank of the Color guard does not execute Eyes Right.
15-17. During ceremonies, the Color guard remains at Right Shoulder Arms except when executing Present
Arms. When not participating in a ceremony and a situation occurs that warrants a Salute by the
organizational Color, the Color sergeant commands Color, SALUTE. The return to the Carry is made at the
command Carry, COLOR.
15-18. When in formation with the Color company, and not during a ceremony, the Color bearers execute
At Ease and Rest, keeping the staffs of the Colors vertical. The Color guard executes Right Shoulder Arms,
Order Arms, and Present Arms with the Color company. During ceremonies when the Colors are not forward
and remarks are to be made, the Color guards and Color bearers execute Order Arms and Parade Rest on
command of the Color company commander. During any ceremony when the units are At Ease, the Color
guard and Color bearers are at Parade Rest.

RECEIVING OR DISMISSING THE COLORS BY THE COLOR
GUARD
15-19. The Color guard uses the following procedures when receiving or dismissing the Colors:
 When receiving uncased Colors on display in the commander’s office, the Color guard is
positioned in a single rank facing the Colors. The Color sergeant commands Present, ARMS and
Order, ARMS. On completion of Order Arms, the Color bearers (without command) secure the
Colors. The Color guard files outside (guard, national Color, organizational Color, guard) and

May

TC 3-21.5

15-3

Chapter 15



re-forms in a line formation. The Color guards execute Right Shoulder Arms and the Color bearers
assume the Carry Position.
To dismiss the Colors, the procedures are basically the same except that the Colors are placed
back in their stands before executing Present Arms.

CASING AND UPCASING THE COLORS
15-20. To case and uncase the Colors, the Color guard forms in a line formation with the cased Colors at
the Carry Position (Order Position when indoors). The CSM (or their direct representative) positions
themselves six steps in front of and centered on the formation. They then command Sling, ARMS:
 The Color guards immediately adjust their slings and assume Sling Arms. The CSM commands
POST. The Color guards face to the Half Left (Right) in marching, take four steps, halt, and
execute About Face.
 The CSM then directs UNCASE THE COLORS. The Color bearers lower the Colors (same as
Present Guidon). The two guards move forward and untie and uncase the Colors. The Color
bearers unfurl and immediately return the Colors to the Carry (Order) Position. While the Colors
are being unfurled, the guards fold the cases and secure them in their left hand.
 When the Colors are in the Carry Position, the CSM commands Present, ARMS. The CSM, Color
guards, and the organizational Color Salute.
 The CSM commands Order, ARMS, and then commands POST. On the command of execution
POST, the Color guards place the folded canvas cases inside the cartridge belts (center rear) of
the Color bearers. The Color guards assume their original positions, adjust their slings, and return
to Right Shoulder Arms.
 If the CSM or their representative is not present, the senior Color sergeant gives the necessary
commands.
Note. To case the Colors, the procedures are basically the same except Present Arms is given
before the Colors are lowered.
15-21. When casing or uncasing the Colors with the command present, the commander directs UNCASE
(CASE) THE COLORS. The CSM and Color guards execute the movement (as previously stated in
paragraph 15-20) except that they execute Present Arms and Order Arms with the Color company. When the
Colors are uncased and returned to the Carry Position, the commander directs BRING YOUR UNITS TO
PRESENT ARMS. After the units have executed this directive, the commander then directs BRING YOUR
UNITS TO ORDER ARMS.
15-22. If the Colors are to be cased or uncased during the receiving or dismissing by the Color company,
the Color guards execute Present Arms and Order Arms on command of the company commander. The CSM
uncases the organizational Color when it is displayed by itself. The CSM major may also assist the Color
guards when uncasing more than two Colors.

RECEIVING OR DISMISSING THE COLORS BY COLOR COMPANY
15-23. The designated Color company receives and dismisses the Colors as follows:
 The Color company should receive the Colors before it forms with the battalion.
 The Color company forms at Attention with the commander facing to the front as the Colors near
the Color company.
 The Color guard, guided by the senior sergeant, approaches from the front and halts 10 steps from
the company commander.
 The company commander then faces about and commands Present, ARMS, faces the Colors, and
Salutes. They terminate their Salute, faces about, and commands Order, ARMS.
 The specialists or privates of the Color guard execute Present Arms and return to Right Shoulder
Arms on the commands of the company commander (Present Arms and Order Arms).

15-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors








The senior sergeant then marches the Color guard to its position within the company formation. If
the company is in column formation, the Color guard forms at the rear of the company. When the
company is in line or mass formation, the Color guard forms at the left of the company. The Color
company may join the battalion before the battalion forms at the ceremony site or join with the
battalion at the ceremony site. When the Color company joins the battalion, the senior Color
sergeant marches the Color guard to its appropriate post in the battalion formation.
The Color guard is dismissed at the conclusion of the ceremony. This can occur in the vicinity of
the ceremony site, in the Color company area, or at the battalion headquarters. At the designated
area, the senior sergeant marches and halts the Color guard 10 steps in front of and facing the
commander of the Color company. The actions for dismissing the Colors are the same as receiving
the Colors. After being dismissed, the Color guard marches to the office, headquarters, or tent of
the commanding officer.
The Colors are received and dismissed from organizations smaller than a company, such as a
funeral escort, in a similar manner.
Casing and uncasing the Colors may be scheduled in conjunction with receiving and dismissing
the Colors.

POSTING AND RETIRING THE COLORS
15-24. Formal assemblies conducted indoors begin with the presentation of the Colors, referred to as
posting the Colors, and end with the retirement of the Colors. The following instructions outline the
procedures for posting and retiring the Colors, with a head table and without head table. Since indoor areas
vary in size, configuration, and intended purpose, these instructions do not apply to all situations. Therefore,
persons planning an indoor ceremony can modify these instructions based on their specific floor plan. Color
bearers must conduct a reconnaissance of the ceremony location taking note of the dimensions of the room.
Low ceilings will present significant challenges when trying to raise and lower Colors.

POSTING THE COLORS
15-25. The Color guard forms outside the entrance to the dining area, auditorium, or meeting hall. The
audience is directed to stand until the Colors are posted. If the playing of “The Star-Spangled Banner” (or
other appropriate music) and the invocation are scheduled, the audience will remain standing until they are
completed:
 When the arrangements include a head table, the Color guard enters in a line formation, preferably,
or forms in a line immediately inside the room and moves to a position centered on and facing the
head table:
 When the Colors arrive at the predesignated position, the Color sergeant commands Colors,
HALT, and Present, ARMS; and reports “The Colors are present.” The host acknowledges
the report and directs POST THE COLORS. The area should be arranged to allow adequate
space for the Color guard to move between the head table and the flag stand.
 The Color sergeant then commands Order, ARMS; Right, FACE; and Forward, MARCH.
On the command of execution MARCH, the Color guard marches to the rear of the head table
(see figure 15-1 on page 15-7).
 Once the Color guard is centered on the flag stand, they Mark Time and the Color sergeant
commands Colors, HALT and Right, FACE. The Color guard should approach the flag
stands from the right to position the national Color bearer in front of the flag holder on the
right, facing the audience.
 The Color bearers, without command, place the Colors in the stand.
 When the Colors are in the stand, the Color sergeant commands Present, ARMS and Order,
ARMS. The guards return to Right Shoulder Arms; the Color sergeant commands Left, FACE
and Forward, MARCH; and the Color guard exits the area.
 When a head table is not used, the Color guard enters and moves to a predesignated position
centered on and facing the audience. This may require the Color guard to move in a column and

May

TC 3-21.5

15-5

Chapter 15





use Facing movements. The movement must be planned so that the national Color is always on
the right when in line and is leading when in column.
When the Colors arrive at the predesignated position, the Color sergeant commands Colors,
HALT; Left (Right), FACE; and Present, ARMS. Any scheduled music or the Pledge of
Allegiance then occurs. The Color sergeant then commands Order, ARMS.
The Color sergeant commands Right (Left), FACE and Forward, MARCH. On the command of
execution MARCH, the Color guard marches to the flag stand where the actions of the Color
guard are the same as previously described.

RETIRING THE COLORS
15-26. The audience is directed to stand for the retiring of the Colors:
 When a head table is used, the Color sergeant moves the Color guard to the head table:
 The Color sergeant commands Color guard, HALT; Present, ARMS, and reports to the host,
“Sir or Ma’am, request permission to retire the Colors.” The host acknowledges the report
and directs RETIRE THE COLORS.
 The Color sergeant commands Order, ARMS; Right, FACE; Forward, MARCH; and
moves the Color guard until they are centered on the flag stand where they Mark Time.
 The Color sergeant commands Color guard, HALT; Right, FACE; Present, ARMS; and
Order, ARMS. Upon completion of Order Arms the Color bearers, without command, retrieve
the Colors and assume the Carry Position.
 The Color sergeant commands FACE and Forward, MARCH. The Color guard exits the
area.
 When the head table is not used, the Color guard moves directly to the flag stands where the Colors
are retrieved. The Color guard exits as previously described.
Note. These procedures will vary when the CSM oversees the Colors during a formal dining-in.

15-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors

Figure 15-1. Posting and retiring the Colors

SECTION III – COLOR GUARD TEAMS
15-27. The Color guard detail is configured in several different ways with each configuration requiring
different steps when conducting a movement of the Color guard to the rear during ceremonies. This section
discusses the steps and movements for Color guard in the several different configurations.

MOVEMENT OF THREE-SOLDIER COLOR GUARD TO THE REAR
15-28. To face a three-Soldier Color guard to the rear, the command is Colors Reverse, MARCH, and each
Soldier simultaneously executes the following movements:
 Number 1 faces left while marking time, takes two steps forward, and faces to the left while
marking time.
 Number 2 takes one full step forward, executes About Face while marking time, and takes one full
step in the new direction, marking time.
 Number 3 takes one full step and two half steps forward, faces to the right while marking time,
takes two full steps, faces to the right in marching, takes two full steps, and marks time.
 When all are abreast of each other, they step off together or halt, as commanded (see figure 15-2
on page 15-8).

May

TC 3-21.5

15-7

Chapter 15

Figure 15-2. Movement of three-Soldier Color guard to the rear

MOVEMENT OF FOUR-SOLDIER COLOR GUARD TO THE REAR
15-29. To face a four-Soldier Color guard to the rear, the command is Colors reverse, MARCH. At the
command MARCH, each Soldier simultaneously executes the following movements:
 Number 1 takes two steps forward, faces to the left in marching, takes one full step and three half
steps, faces to the left in marching, and takes two steps in the new direction.
 Number 2 faces to the left in marching and faces to the left while marking time.
 Number 3 takes one step forward, faces to the right in marching, takes two half steps, faces to the
right in marching, and takes one step in the new direction.

15-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors




Number 4 takes one step forward, faces to the right in marching, takes one full step and three half
steps, faces to the right in marching, and takes one step forward in the new direction.
Numbers 2, 3, and 4 mark time after completing their movements until all Soldiers are abreast,
then step off together or halt, as the situation dictates (see figure 15-3).

Note. This command may be given while marching, in which case the commands are given when
the left foot strikes the marching surface.

Figure 15-3. Movement of four-Soldier Color guard to the rear
Note. Left About may be used in lieu of Colors Reverse. The command for this movement is Left
about, MARCH. The Color sergeant is the pivot person for the movement. On the command of
execution, the Color sergeant marches in place and turns to the left. Other members shorten their
step and turn in an arc keeping abreast of each other and maintaining alignment. When the
movement has been completed, each person marches in place until the command HALT or
Forward, MARCH is given. This movement may be executed from the HALT or while marching.

May

TC 3-21.5

15-9

Chapter 15

MOVEMENT OF FIVE-SOLDIER COLOR GUARD TO THE REAR
15-30. To face a five-Soldier Color guard to the rear, the command is Colors Reverse, MARCH. At the
command MARCH, each Soldier simultaneously executes the following movements:
 Number 1 takes four steps forward, faces to the left in marching, takes four full steps forward,
faces to the left in marching, takes four full steps in the new direction, and marks time.
 Number 2 faces left while marking time, takes two steps forward, and faces to the left while
marking time.
 Number 3 takes one full step forward, executes about face while marking time, takes one full step
in the new direction, and marks time.
 Number 4 takes one full step and two half steps, faces to the right while marching, takes two full
steps, faces to the right in marching, takes two full steps, and marks time.
 Number 5 takes three full steps forward, faces to the right in marching, takes four full steps
forward, faces to the right in marching, takes three full steps forward, and marks time.
 Numbers 2, 3, 4, and 5 mark time after completing their movements.
 When all Soldiers are abreast of each other, they step off together or halt, as the situation dictates
(see figure 15-4).

15-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors

Figure 15-4. Movement of five-Soldier Color guard to the rear

May

TC 3-21.5

15-11

Chapter 15

Note. Left About may be used in lieu of Colors Reverse. The command for this movement is Left
about, MARCH. The Color sergeant is the pivot person for the movement. On the command of
execution, the Color sergeant marches in place and turns to the left. Other members shorten their
step and turn in an arc keeping abreast of each other and maintaining alignment. When the
movement has been completed, each person marches in place until the command HALT or
Forward, MARCH is given. This movement may be executed from the HALT or while marching.

MOVEMENT OF SIX-SOLDIER COLOR GUARD TO THE REAR
15-31. To face a six-Soldier Color guard to the rear, the command is Colors Reverse, MARCH. At the
command MARCH, each Soldier simultaneously executes the following movements:
 Number 1 takes five steps forward, faces to the left in marching, takes six full steps forward, faces
to the left in marching, takes five full steps in the new direction, and marks time.
 Number 2 faces left while marking time, takes three full steps forward, and faces to the left in the
new direction, while marking time.
 Number 3 takes two full steps forward, faces to the left while marching, takes two steps forward,
faces to the left while marching, takes two full steps in the new direction, and marks time.
 Number 4 takes one full step forward, faces to the right while marching, takes two half steps
forward, faces to the right in marching, takes one full step in the new direction, and marks time.
 Number 5 takes three full steps forward, faces to the right in marching, takes three full steps
forward, faces to the right in marching, takes three full steps in the new direction, and marks time.
 Number 6 takes four full steps forward, faces to the right in marching, takes six full steps forward,
faces to the right in marching, takes four full steps in the new direction, and marks time.
 Numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 mark time after completing their movement.
 When all Soldiers are abreast of each other, they step off together or halt, as the situation dictates
(see figure 15-5).

15-12

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors

Figure 15-5. Movement of six-Soldier Color guard to the rear

SECTION IV – POSITIONS OF THE COLORS
15-32. The position of the Colors will change throughout the ceremony. This section addresses the position
of the Colors at the Order, Carry, Parade Rest, and Salute.

May

TC 3-21.5

15-13

Chapter 15

POSITION OF THE COLORS AT THE ORDER
15-33. At the Order, rest the ferrule of the staff on the marching surface touching the outside of the right
footgear opposite the ball of the right foot. Hold the staff in the right hand with the back of the hand facing
outward and the fingers wrapped around the staff. Rest the staff against the hollow of the shoulder (see
figure 15-6).

Figure 15-6. Position of the Colors at the Order

POSITION OF THE COLORS AT THE CARRY
15-34. At the Carry, rest the ferrule of the staff in the socket of the sling. The socket is below the waist and
adjusted to ensure that the finials of all Colors are of equal height (see figure 15-7). Grasp the staff with the
right hand (even with the mouth) and incline it slightly to the front with the left hand securing the ferrule in
the socket. The left hand may be positioned immediately below the right hand to more firmly secure the
Colors on windy days.

15-14

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors

Figure 15-7. Position of the Colors at the Carry

POSITION OF THE COLORS AT PARADE REST
15-35. Parade Rest with the Colors is executed with staffs vertical. The Order and Parade Rest are executed
with the Color company except during ceremonies when the Colors remain at the Carry Position (see
figure 15-8 on page 15-16).

May

TC 3-21.5

15-15

Chapter 15

Figure 15-8. Position of the Colors at Parade Rest

POSITION OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL COLORS AT COLOR
SALUTE
15-36. This position is assumed from the carry by slipping the right hand upward about 4 inches and then
thrusting the arm forward shoulder high and horizontal to the marching surface forming an approximate
45-degree angle. When the Colors salute with troops who execute Present Arms from the Order, the Color
bearers assume the position of Carry at the command ARMS and then execute the Color Salute (see
figure 15-9). When casing or uncasing Colors indoors (at the Order), the organizational Color bearer Salutes
(dips) by slipping the right hand upward and grasping the staff firmly, with the forearm horizontal and the
staff thrust forward until the arm is fully extended.

15-16

TC 3-21.5

May

Colors

Figure 15-9. Position of the organizational Colors at Color Salute

May

TC 3-21.5

15-17

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 16

Salute Battery
Ceremonies did not originally use field artillery as a salute battery. In the 19th century,
branches of service were lined up from right to left: Infantry, field artillery, and
Cavalry, respectively. Field artillery lined up their guns but did not fire them. When
honors began to be fired in ceremonies, the guns were moved out of the formation to
avoid injury to other elements of the formation.

SECTION I – PREPARATION
16-1. The salute battery should arrive at the ceremonial site early enough to position its pieces before the
arrival of units on the ready line:




The pieces are positioned downwind from the ceremony site with the muzzles pointing away from
the reviewing stand. When possible, the opened trails are two steps to the rear of the final line and
the number six piece is positioned twelve steps from the left flank unit. Other pieces are positioned
about four steps apart (measure from inside wheels) and on line with number six.
Once the pieces are in position, the battery is formed to the left of the number one piece and in
front of the line so that the number six and three sections are on the final line (see figure 16-1).

Figure 16-1. Position of salute battery and personnel before the review

May

TC 3-21.5

16-1

Chapter 16

SECTION II – SEQUENCE OF EVENTS AND INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS
16-2. The sequence of events and individual actions necessary to conduct a salute battery are described
herein. The COT should verify that the salute battery and band are prepared to render honors.

FORMATION OF TROOPS
16-3. On hearing the band sound Attention, the battery commander Faces About, commands Battery,
ATTENTION, and again faces about:
 On completion of the adjutant’s call, the battery commander Faces About and commands Right,
FACE. They then command Section, POST.
 The section chiefs in reverse sequence (for example, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1) command Forward, MARCH
or Column Half Right, MARCH. The sections march forward along the final line and halt when
centered on the piece.
 The battery commander faces to the left and commands (themselves and their staff) Column Half
Right, MARCH. They march forward (inclining as necessary) so that when halted the battery
commander is six steps from and centered on the firing battery. The section chief and the counter
should be centered and three steps to the rear of the commander. The executive officer is on line
with the guidon bearer.
 When the battery commander has halted their staff, they face to the right and command Left,
FACE. Then they command Dress right, DRESS; Ready, FRONT; and Parade, REST (for large
reviews, the command AT EASE may be substituted for Parade, REST). The commander then
faces about and executes Parade Rest.

PRESENTATION OF HONORS
16-4. When the COT has directed Order Arms (adjutant has taken their post), the battery commander faces
about and commands Order, ARMS. They then direct FIRE THE SALUTE and faces about:
 The battery commander quietly commands (themselves and their guidon bearer) Present, ARMS
and Order, ARMS, as appropriate.
 The executive officer, counter, and chief of the firing battery face about. The executive officer
commands Cannoneers, POST. The cannoneers immediately move to their firing positions.
 The executive officer commands With blank ammunition (pause), LOAD. They then command
STAND BY, NUMBER ONE. As each piece is ready to fire, the section chief raises their arm
(nearest the executive officer) and looks at the executive officer.
 When all section chiefs have indicated they are ready (arm raised), the executive officer raises
their right arm and looks at the COT. The COT takes the raised arm as the signal that the battery
is ready to fire. They then face about and command (themselves and their staff) Present, ARMS.
 As the commander’s hand touches their headgear, the executive officer signals the first piece to
fire. The executive officer drops their arm to a horizontal position and then raises it back to a
vertical position for each round. Rounds are fired at 3-second intervals for normal honors and
5-second intervals for funerals (see AR 600-25).
 During the Salute, as the second to last round is fired, the counter faces about and announces
ELEVEN. As the next to last round is fired, the chief of the firing battery Faces About and
announces TWELVE. This is the signal for the executive officer to fire one more round.
 During the firing, each section immediately reloads after each round is fired and is prepared to fire
in case of a misfire. When the last round has been fired, the executive officer signals CEASE
FIRE and then signals UNLOAD.
 When all pieces are unloaded and the cannoneers are at Attention, the executive officer commands
to the rear of the piece, FALL IN (cannoneers automatically fall in at Dress Right); they then
command Ready, FRONT and Parade, REST. When all sections are back in position on the final
line, the executive officer faces about.

16-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Salute Battery

INSPECTION
16-5. As the reviewing party approaches piece number six, the battery commander faces about and
commands Battery, ATTENTION. They then face to the front and (over their right shoulder) command
Eyes, RIGHT:
 The battery commander and executive officer execute Eyes Right and Salute. The guidon bearer
executes Eyes Right and Present Guidon. All others execute Eyes Right and follow the reviewing
officer, turning the head until facing to the front.
 When the reviewing party has passed the last piece, the battery commander commands Order,
ARMS for themselves, the executive officer, and the guidon bearer. They then face about. When
the reviewing party has cleared the right rear of their unit, they then command Parade, REST,
faces about, and assumes Parade Rest.

HONORS TO THE NATION AND REMARKS
16-6. The battery executes appropriate movements on command or directives by the COT. The COT always
verifies the battery is prepared for each movement.

MARCH IN REVIEW
16-7. On the command or directive to PASS IN REVIEW, the battery commander faces about and
commands Parade, REST. They then face about and assume Parade Rest.

CONCLUSION
16-8. When the band begins the eight-bar drum beat (before “The Army Goes Rolling Along”), the battery
commander faces about and commands Battery, ATTENTION. They then face about. When the band has
finished playing the music, the battery commander faces about and commands REST.

May

TC 3-21.5

16-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 17

Civilian Participation in Military Ceremonies
This chapter serves as a guide for commanders in planning and conducting military
ceremonies with civilian participation.

SECTION I – HISTORY
17-1. Since its inception at the beginning of the American Revolution, the U.S. Army has always seen the
importance of civilian control of the military and participation of civilians in military activities. As a result,
military ceremonies are frequently held to honor civilians.

SECTION II – TYPES OF CEREMONIES
17-2. Civilians may participate in three general categories of military ceremonies:
 Presenting awards.
 Receiving awards.
 Being honored.

CIVILIANS PRESENTING AWARDS
17-3. This category includes occasions when an award is made to another civilian and occasions when
awards are presented to military personnel by a civilian. These ceremonies are conducted as previously
outlined with the following exceptions:
 The host or reviewing officer is accompanied to the reviewing stand by the civilian. The reviewing
officer may relinquish the place of honor to the civilian.
 The reviewing officer accompanies the civilian throughout the sequence of events.
 Because of lack of familiarity with military ceremonies, it may be necessary to brief the civilian
before and during the conduct of the ceremony.

CIVILIANS RECEIVING AWARDS
17-4. Conduct of these ceremonies should be guided by paragraph 10-25 with the following exceptions:
 Civilians should be initially positioned to the left of the reviewing stand and not marched forward
with the military personnel, if any, to receive awards.
 When the Colors are brought forward, civilians move to a position five steps in front of and
centered on the Colors. When military and civilians receive an award at the same time, they are
aligned from right to left with the highest award on the right.
 When the awardees are posted, they remain in the same order. If there are no military awardees,
the civilians move to the left of the reviewing stand.
 When this ceremony is conducted for presenting posthumous awards, other types of awards are
not incorporated. A carefully selected escort officer should accompany relatives of persons
receiving posthumous awards.
Note. If there is only one awardee, they may be the reviewing official.

May

TC 3-21.5

17-1

Chapter 17

REVIEWS IN HONOR OF CIVILIANS
17-5. Government employees, private citizens; and local, state, national, or foreign officials may be honored
by a review. (See AR 600-25 for special honors due for certain officials.) Other civilians may be honored, as
noted in paragraphs 17-3 and 17-4, by participating in the place of or with the reviewing officer.

17-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Appendix A

Saluting
The origin of the Hand Salute is uncertain. Some historians believe it began in late
Roman times when assassinations were common. A citizen who wanted to see a public
official had to approach with their right hand raised to show that they did not hold a
weapon. Knights in armor raised visors with the right hand when meeting a comrade.
This practice gradually became a way of showing respect and, in early American
history, sometimes involved removing the hat. By 1820, the motion was modified to
touching the hat, and since then it has become the Hand Salute used today.

WHEN TO SALUTE
A-1. Army personnel in uniform are required to salute when they meet and recognize persons entitled (by
grade) to a salute except when it is inappropriate or impractical (in public conveyances such as planes and
buses, in public places such as inside theaters, or when driving a vehicle):
 Salutes are also rendered—
 When the U.S. national anthem, “To the Color,” “Hail to the Chief,” or foreign national
anthems are played.
 To uncased national Color outdoors.
 On ceremonial occasions as prescribed in Part Two, Ceremonies.
 At reveille and retreat ceremonies, during the raising or lowering of the flag.
 During the sounding of honors.
 When the Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. flag is being recited outdoors.
 When turning over control of formations.
 When rendering reports.
 To officers of friendly foreign countries.
 Salutes are not required when—
 Indoors, except when reporting to an officer or when on duty as a guard.
 Addressing a prisoner.
 Saluting is obviously inappropriate. In these cases, only greetings are exchanged. (Example:
A person carrying articles with both hands, or otherwise occupied so that saluting is
impracticable, is not required to salute a senior person or return the salute to a subordinate.)
 Either the senior or the subordinate is wearing civilian clothes.
 In any case not covered by specific instructions, the salute is rendered.

REPORTING INDOORS
A-2. When reporting to an officer in their office, the Soldier removes their headgear, knocks, and enters
when told to do so. They approach within two steps of the officer’s desk, Halts, Salutes, and Reports, “Sir
(Ma’am), Private Smit reports.” The salute is held until the report is completed and the salute has been
returned by the officer. When the business is completed, the Soldier salutes, holds the salute until it has been
returned, executes the appropriate facing movement, and departs. When reporting indoors under arms, the
procedure is the same except that the headgear is not removed and the Soldier renders the salute prescribed
for the weapon with which they are armed.

May

TC 3-21.5

A-1

Appendix A

Notes. 1. The expression “under arms” means carrying a weapon in your hands, by a sling, or in a
holster.
2. When reporting to a NCO, the procedures are the same, except no salutes are exchanged.

REPORTING OUTDOORS
A-3. When reporting outdoors, the Soldier moves rapidly toward the officer, and halts approximately three
steps from the officer, Salutes, and Reports (as when indoors). When the Soldier is dismissed by the officer,
salutes are again exchanged. If under arms, the Soldier carries the weapon in the manner prescribed for
saluting.

SALUTING PERSONS IN VEHICLES
A-4. The practice of saluting officers in official vehicles (recognized individually by grade or identifying
vehicle plates and or flags) is considered an appropriate courtesy. Salutes are not required to be rendered by
or to personnel who are driving or riding in privately owned vehicles except by gate guards, who render
salutes to recognized officers in all vehicles unless their duties make the salute impractical. When military
personnel are drivers of a moving vehicle, they do not initiate a salute (see AR 600-25).

OTHER SALUTES
A-5. Other instances when saluting may or may not be required—when in formation, not in formation,
outdoors, and indoors. Each have different requirements in regards to salutes and are discussed herein.

IN FORMATION
A-6. Individuals in formation do not salute or return salutes except at the command Present, ARMS. The
individual in charge salutes and acknowledges salutes for the entire formation. Commanders of organizations
or detachments that are not a part of a larger formation salute officers of higher grade by bringing the
organization or detachment to attention before saluting. When in the field under battle or simulated battle
conditions, the organization or detachment is not brought to attention. An individual in formation at ease or
at rest comes to attention when addressed by an officer.

NOT IN FORMATION
A-7. On the approach of an officer, a group of individuals not in formation is called to Attention by the first
person noticing the officer, and all come sharply to Attention and salute. This action is to be taken at
approximately six paces away from the officer, or the closest point of approach. Individuals participating in
games, and members of work details, do not salute. The individual in charge of a work detail, if not actively
engaged, salutes and acknowledges Salutes for the entire detail. A unit resting alongside a road does not come
to Attention upon the approach of an officer; however, if the officer addresses an individual (or group), the
individual (or group) comes to Attention and remains at Attention (unless otherwise ordered) until the
termination of the conversation, at which time the individual (or group) Salutes the officer.

OUTDOORS
A-8. Whenever and wherever the U.S. national anthem, “To the Color,” “Reveille,” or “Hail to the Chief”
is played, at the first note, all dismounted personnel in uniform and not in formation face the flag (or the
music, if the flag is not in view), stand at Attention, and render the prescribed Salute. The position of Salute
is held until the last note of the music is sounded. Military personnel not in uniform will stand at Attention
(remove headdress, if any, with the right hand), and place the right hand over the heart. Vehicles in motion
are brought to a Halt. Persons riding in a passenger car or on a motorcycle dismount and salute. Occupants
of other types of military vehicles and buses remain in the vehicle and sit at attention; the individual in charge

A-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Saluting

of each vehicle dismounts and renders the Hand Salute. Tank and armored car commanders Salute from the
vehicle.

INDOORS
A-9. When the national anthem is played indoors, officers and enlisted personnel stand at Attention and face
the music, or the flag if one is present. There is no saluting indoors except when reporting to a commander
and when on duty as a guard as previously mentioned at the beginning of this appendix.
Note. Narrators or printed programs can help inform spectators of appropriate responses.

SALUTING COLORS
A-10. National and organizational flags, which are mounted on flagstaffs equipped with finials, are called
Colors. Military personnel passing an uncased national Color salute at six steps distance and hold the Salute
until they have passed six steps beyond it. Similarly, when the uncased Color passes by, they Salute when it
is six steps away and hold the Salute until it has passed six steps beyond them.
Note. Small flags carried by individuals, such as those carried by civilian spectators at a parade,
are not saluted. It is improper to salute with any object in the right hand or with a cigarette, cigar,
or pipe in the mouth.

UNCOVERING
A-11. Officers and enlisted Soldiers under arms uncover only when—
 Seated as a member of (or in attendance on) a court or board.
 Entering places of divine worship.
 In attendance at an official reception.
A-12. Personnel remove their headdress indoors. When outdoors, military headdress is never removed, or
raised as a form of salutation. When appropriate, civilians may be saluted in lieu of removing the headdress.

SALUTING UPON BOARDING NAVAL SHIPS
A-13. When Army personnel board U.S. Navy ships, either as an individual or as a unit leader, they salute
according to naval procedures:
 When boarding a naval ship, upon reaching the top of the gangway, face and salute the national
ensign. After completing this salute, salute the officer of the deck who will be standing on the
quarter deck at the head of the gangway. When saluting the officer of the deck, request permission
to board, “Sir or Ma’am, request permission to come aboard.” The officer of the deck will return
the salute.
 When leaving the ship, render the same salutes in reverse order, and request permission to leave,
“Sir or Ma’am, request permission to go ashore.”

May

TC 3-21.5

A-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix B

Manual of Arms—M16-Series Rifle
The manual of arms movements for the M16-series rifle (see figure B-1) are nearly the
same as those for the M4-series carbine. For ease of understanding, the movements are
fully explained. The same rules that apply to the M4-series carbine apply to the
M16-series rifle.

Figure B-1. Nomenclature, M16-series rifle

May

TC 3-21.5

B-1

Appendix B

BASIC PROCEDURES
B-1. The following are basic procedures that apply to the M16-series rifle:
 At the Halt, all movements are initiated from Order Arms or Sling Arms, which are the Positions
of Attention with the rifle.
 All precision movements are executed in quick-time cadence.
 For drill purposes, the magazine is not carried in the rifle. When performing duty requiring the
use of the magazine, the rifle is carried at Sling Arms.
 The command Port, ARMS must be given before the command for Double Time.
 Facings, alignments, and short-distance marching movements are executed from Order Arms or
Sling Arms. When these movements are commanded while at Order Arms, automatically raise the
rifle about 1 inch off the marching surface on the command of execution. When the movement
has been completed, automatically return the rifle to Order Arms.
 Facing movements are executed from Order Arms or Sling Arms. When a Facing is necessary to
establish the direction of march, the Facing movement is executed before the command for the
manual of arms. After a marching movement has been completed, Order, ARMS or Sling, ARMS
is commanded before the command for the Facing movement.
 Ready, Port, ARMS must be commanded following Inspection Arms and before any other
movements can be commanded.
 Port Arms is the key position assumed in most manual of arms movements from one position to
another except Right Shoulder Arms from Order Arms and Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms.
 Manual of arms movements are a combination of the Position of Attention and the procedures for
the prescribed movement. Most manual of arms movements are executed with the head, eyes, and
body as in the Position of Attention.
 Sling Arms is the appropriate position assumed to carry the rifle while marching in most situations.
Port Arms is only used when slings are unavailable or unless specifically required by local
conditions.
Note. Paragraphs B-2 through B-10 refer to slings tight. However, all individual and unit drill
movements may be executed with slings loose except when executing Fix and Unfix Bayonets.
The manual of arms movements for the M14, M1903 or M1917, and M4 carbine are basically the
same as for the M16. The movements for the M4 carbine are fully described in chapter 5. The
movements for the M14 are fully described in appendix C; the movements for the M1903 or
M1917 are fully described in appendix D.

ORDER ARMS
B-2. To execute Order Arms, use the following procedures:
 Assume Order Arms on the command FALL IN or from Parade Rest (see figure B-2) on the
command of execution ATTENTION.
 At Order Arms, maintain the Position of Attention with the rifle. Place the butt of the rifle on the
marching surface, centered on the right foot, with sights to the rear. The toe of the butt touches the
foot so that the rear sight and pistol grip form a straight line to the front. Secure the rifle with the
right hand in a “U” formed by the fingers (extended and joined) and thumb. Hold the rifle above
the front sight assembly with the right thumb and forefinger pointed downward, and on line with
the flat surface of the handguard. Keep the right hand and arm behind the rifle so that the thumb
is straight along the seam of the trouser leg.

B-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M16-Series Rifle

Figure B-2. Order Arms and Parade Rest

REST POSITIONS
B-3. The Rifle Rest Positions are commanded and executed the same as individual drill with the following
additions:
 On the command of execution REST of Parade, REST, thrust the muzzle forward,
simultaneously changing the grip of the right hand to grasp the barrel, keeping the toe of the butt
of the rifle on the marching surface and the right arm straight.
 Execute Stand at Ease in the same manner as Parade Rest except turn the head and eyes toward
the commander.
 On the command AT EASE or REST, keep the butt of the rifle in place as in Parade Rest.

May

TC 3-21.5

B-3

Appendix B

PORT ARMS
B-4. To execute Port Arms, use the following procedures:
 Port Arms from Order Arms is a two-count movement (see figure B-3). The command is Port,
ARMS.
 On the command of execution ARMS (count one), grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand
and raise the rifle diagonally across the body, keeping the right elbow down (without strain).
With the left hand, simultaneously grasp the handguard just forward of the slip ring so that
the rifle is about 4 inches from the waist.
 On count two, regrasp the rifle at the small of the stock with the right hand. Hold the rifle
diagonally across the body, about 4 inches from the waist, the right forearm horizontal, and
the elbows close to the sides.

Figure B-3. Port Arms from Order Arms


B-4

Order Arms from Port Arms is a three-count movement (see figure B-4). The command is Order,
ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, release the grasp of the right hand and move the right
hand up and across the body to the right front of the front sight assembly, grasp the barrel
firmly without moving the rifle, and keep the right elbow down without strain.

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M16-Series Rifle





On count two, move the left hand from the handguard and lower the rifle to the right side until
it is about 1 inch from the marching surface. Guide the rifle to the side by placing the
forefinger of the left hand at the flash suppressor, fingers and thumb extended and joined,
palm to the rear.
On count three, move the left hand sharply to the left side, lower the rifle gently to the
marching surface, and resume the position of Order Arms.

Figure B-4. Order Arms from Port Arms

PRESENT ARMS
B-5. To execute Present Arms, use the following procedures:
 Present Arms from Order Arms is a three-count movement. The command is Present, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts. On count three, twist the
rifle with the right hand so that the magazine well is to the front, and move the rifle with to a
vertical position with the carrying handle about 4 inches in front of and centered on the body.
Lower the rifle until the left forearm is horizontal; keep the elbows in at the sides as seen in
figure B-5 on page B-7.

May

TC 3-21.5

B-5

Appendix B












B-6

Order Arms from Present Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, return the rifle to Port Arms. Counts two, three, and four are
the same as Order Arms from Port Arms.
Port Arms is assumed en route to or from Present Arms when going to or from Right Shoulder or
Left Shoulder Arms. Present Arms from or to Port Arms is a one-count movement.
When rendering reports or courtesy to an individual from Order Arms, execute Present Arms and
turn the head and eyes toward the individual addressed. Order Arms is executed automatically
upon acknowledgment of the Salute.
When rendering courtesy to an individual with the rifle at Right Shoulder, Left Shoulder, or Port
Arms and not in formation, execute Present Arms. Upon acknowledgment of the Salute,
automatically return to the original position.
To render courtesy with the rifle at the Carry position, execute Present Arms from either the Rightor Left-Hand Carry position. Bring the rifle in the most convenient manner to Port Arms, and then
execute Present Arms in one count. To assume the Carry position from Present Arms, execute
Port Arms in one count and then return the rifle in the most convenient manner to the Carry
position.
When double-timing (not in formation), come to Quick Time before rendering the courtesy.

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M16-Series Rifle

Figure B-5. Present arms with the M16 rifle

INSPECTION ARMS
B-6. To execute Inspection Arms, use the following procedures:
 Inspection Arms from Order Arms is a seven-count movement. The command is Inspection,
ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts.
 On count three, move the left hand from the handguard and grasp the pistol grip, thumb over
the lower portion of the bolt catch.
 On count four, release the grasp of the right hand, unlock the charging handle with the thumb,
and sharply pull the charging handle to the rear with the thumb and forefinger. At the same
time, apply pressure on the lower portion of the bolt catch, locking the bolt to the rear.

May

TC 3-21.5

B-7

Appendix B





On count five, without changing the grasp of the right hand, sharply push the charging handle
forward until it is locked into position; then regrasp the rifle with the right hand at the small
of the stock.
On count six, remove the left hand, twist the rifle with the right hand so that the ejection port
is skyward, regrasp the handguard with the left hand just forward of the slip ring, and visually
inspect the receiver through the ejection port.
On count seven, with the right hand, twist the rifle so that the sights are up and assume
Inspection Arms.

Note. The method for inspecting the rifle by an inspecting officer is explained in chapter 8.


Ready, Port, ARMS is the only command given from Inspection Arms:
 On the command Ready, move the left hand and regrasp the carbine with the thumb and
fingers forming a “U” at the magazine well and trigger guard, the thumb (without pressure)
on the upper part of the bolt catch, fingertips placed below or under the ejection port cover.
 On the command Port, press the bolt catch and allow the bolt to go forward. With the
fingertips, push upward and close the ejection port cover. Grasp the pistol grip with the left
hand and place the left thumb on the trigger.
 On the command ARMS, pull the trigger and resume Port Arms.

RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS
B-7. To execute Right Shoulder Arms, use the following procedures:
 Right Shoulder Arms from Order Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand and raise it
diagonally across the body, keeping the right elbow down without strain. With the left hand,
grasp the handguard just forward of the slip ring, ensuring that the weapon is about 4 inches
from the waist.
 On count two, move the right hand from the barrel and grasp the heel of the butt between the
first two fingers with the thumb and forefinger touching at the first joint.
 On count three (without moving the head), release the grasp of the left hand (without changing
the grasp of the right hand), twist the rifle so that the sights are up, and place the weapon onto
the right shoulder, moving the left hand to the small of the stock to guide the rifle to the
shoulder. Keep the fingers and thumb (left hand) extended and joined with the palm turned
toward the body. The first joint of the left forefinger touches the rear of the charging handle.
Keep the left elbow down, and keep the right forearm horizontal with the right upper arm
against the side and on line with the back.
 On count four, sharply move the left hand back to the left side as in the Position of Attention.
 Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Order,
ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, without moving the head and without changing the
grasp of the right hand, press down quickly and firmly on the butt of the rifle with the right
hand and twist the weapon (with the sights up), guiding it diagonally across the body and
about 4 inches from the waist. Grasp the rifle with the left hand at the handguard just forward
of the slip ring.
 On count two, move the right hand up and across the body, approaching from the right front
of the front sight assembly, and firmly grasp the barrel without moving the rifle; keep the
right elbow down without strain.
 Counts three and four are the same as going to Order Arms from Port Arms (see figure B-4
on page B-5).

B-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M16-Series Rifle

LEFT SHOULDER ARMS
B-8. To execute Left Shoulder Arms, use the following procedures:
 Left Shoulder Arms from Order Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Left Shoulder,
ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts.
 On count three, release the grasp of the left hand and (without moving the head) place the
rifle on the left shoulder with the right hand (with the sights up), keeping the right elbow
down. At the same time, regrasp the rifle with the left hand with the heel of the butt between
the first two fingers and with the thumb and forefinger touching. The left forearm is
horizontal, and the left upper arm is against the side and on line with the back.
 On the count four, move the right hand to the right side as in the Position of Attention.
 Order Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a five-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS:
 On the command of execution ARMS, move the right hand up and across the body and grasp
the small of the stock, keeping the right elbow down.
 On count two (without moving the head), release the grasp of the left hand and with the right
hand move the rifle diagonally across the body (sights up) about 4 inches from the waist. At
the same time, regrasp the handguard just forward of the slip ring with the left hand, and
resume Port Arms.
 Counts three, four, and five are the same as going to Order Arms from Port Arms (see
figure B-4 on page B-5).

CHANGING POSITIONS
B-9. To change position with the M16-series rifle, use the following procedures:
 Right Shoulder Arms from Port Arms is a three-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, release the grasp of the right hand and
regrasp the rifle with the heel of the butt between the first two fingers, with the thumb and
forefinger touching. Counts two and three are the same as counts three and four from Order Arms.
When marching, the command is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface.
 Port Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Port, ARMS.
On the command of execution ARMS, execute count one of Order Arms from Right Shoulder
Arms. On count two, release the grasp of the right hand and regrasp the rifle at the small of the
stock and come to Port Arms. When marching, the command is given as the right foot strikes the
marching surface.
 Left Shoulder Arms from Port Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Left Shoulder,
ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Left Shoulder Arms in the same manner
as counts three and four from Order Arms. When marching, the command is given as the left foot
strikes the marching surface.
 Port Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Port, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, execute the first two counts of Order Arms from Left Shoulder
Arms. When marching, the command is given as the left foot strikes the marching surface.
 Left Shoulder Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Left
Shoulder, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute the first count the same as
executing Order Arms. On count two, remove the right hand from the butt of the rifle and regrasp
the small of the stock (Port Arms). Counts three and four are the same movements as from Port
Arms. When marching, the command is given as the left foot strikes the marching surface.
 Right Shoulder Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a five-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts.
Counts three, four, and five are the same as from Port Arms. When marching, the command is
given as the right foot strikes the marching surface.
 Present Arms from Right Shoulder Arms or Left Shoulder Arms, while in formation, is executed
from the Halt only. The command is Present, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS,

May

TC 3-21.5

B-9

Appendix B



come to Port Arms from either shoulder and then execute Present Arms (in one count) from
Port Arms.
To resume Right (Left) Shoulder Arms from Present Arms, the command is Right (Left) Shoulder,
ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in one count and then execute
the counts as prescribed from Port Arms.

Note. Experienced Soldiers should be able to execute the 15-count manual of arms in unison from
Order, to Right Shoulder, to Left Shoulder, to Present, to Order Arms. The command is
Fifteen-Count Manual, ARMS.

FIX AND UNFIX BAYONETS
B-10. The command to Fix or Unfix Bayonets is given from Order Arms only. The movement is executed in
a military manner but not in cadence.
Note. The bayonet scabbard is worn on the left side with the tip of the scabbard on line with the
trouser leg seam and the barrel ring to the front.

FIX BAYONETS
B-11. To Fix Bayonets, the command is Fix, BAYONETS. On the command of execution BAYONETS,
grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand, raise the rifle slightly, and place the butt of the rifle between the
feet, with the magazine well to the front. Grasp the rifle barrel with the left hand and move the muzzle to the
left front. With the right hand, unsnap the scabbard securing strap and withdraw the bayonet. Keeping the
eyes on the bayonet point, turn the point skyward and attach the bayonet to the rifle. To engage the bayonet
stud on the rifle with the base of the bayonet, grasp the handle, apply downward pressure until a click is
heard, and then apply limited upward pressure to ensure that the bayonet is seated securely. Re-snap the
scabbard securing strap with the right hand and then come to Order Arms.

UNFIX BAYONETS
B-12. To Unfix Bayonets, the command is Unfix, BAYONETS. On the command of execution
BAYONETS, grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand at the handle of the bayonet and place the rifle butt
between the feet with the magazine well to the front. Move the muzzle to the left with the left hand and secure
it. Unsnap the scabbard securing strap with the right hand, then grasp the bayonet handle with the left hand
and release the bayonet from the rifle muzzle with the left hand. Keeping the eyes on the bayonet point, return
the bayonet to the scabbard and insert it with the barrel ring facing to the front. Re-snap the scabbard securing
strap and come to Order Arms. For safety, if the bayonet is difficult to remove from the rifle, stick the bayonet
point into the marching surface, bend over, and depress the catch mechanism with the left hand while pulling
upward on the rifle with the right hand.

SLING ARMS–M16-SERIES RIFLE
B-13. To execute Sling Arms, use the following procedures:
 From Order Arms with the sling(s) loose, the command for Sling Arms is Sling, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand and raise it vertically.
Grasp the sling near the upper sling swivel with the left hand and release the right hand. Place the
right hand and arm between the sling and rifle and place the sling over the right shoulder. Re-grasp
the sling with the right hand so that the wrist is straight, the right forearm is horizontal, the elbow
is tight against the side, and the rifle is vertical. Release the grasp of the left hand and move it
sharply to the left side as in the Position of Attention.
 To return the rifle to Order Arms with the sling tight, the command is Adjust, SLINGS. On
command of execution SLINGS, remove the rifle from the shoulder. Then, grasp the rifle barrel
with the right hand and raise it vertically. With the left hand, place the butt of the rifle on the right

B-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M16-Series Rifle





hip and cradle it in the crook of the right arm. Use both hands to tighten the sling on the ejection
port side. Grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand and guide the rifle to the Order Arms position.
From Order Arms with sling(s) tight, the command is Sling, ARMS. On the command of
execution ARMS, grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand and raise the rifle vertically. With the
left hand, place the rifle butt on the right hip, cradle the rifle in the crook of the right arm, and use
both hands to adjust the sling. Grasp the sling with the left hand near the upper sling swivel and
execute Sling Arms (as previously described).
If an element is at Order Arms with the sling loose and the commander wants the sling to be
tightened, they command Adjust SLINGS. On the command of execution SLINGS, tighten the
sling and guide the rifle to Order Arms (as described in the previous bullet).

Note. Unless otherwise specified, armed elements of a formation fall-in at Order Arms with slings
loose.


To return the rifle to Order Arms with the sling loose, the command is Unsling, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, reach across the body with the left hand and grasp the sling at the
right shoulder. Release the right-hand grasp of the sling and remove the rifle from the shoulder.
Grasp the rifle barrel with the right hand, release the left-hand grasp of the sling, and guide the
rifle to the Order Arms position (as previously described).

SALUTE AT SLING ARMS
B-14. To execute Salute while at Sling Arms, use the following procedures:
 To Salute while at Sling Arms, the command is Present, ARMS. On the command of execution
ARMS, reach across the body with the left hand and grasp the sling just above the right hand.
Release the right hand and execute the Hand Salute.
 To terminate the Hand Salute, the command is Order, ARMS. On the command of execution
ARMS, lower the right hand sharply to the side as in the Position of Attention and then regrasp
the sling at the original position. After grasping the sling with the right hand, release the left hand
and return it sharply to the left side as in the Position of Attention.
 When rendering reports or courtesy to an individual, the same rules apply for the Hand Salute (as
explained in individual drill).
Note. Individuals performing duty in congested areas, which would require frequent salutes,
should carry the weapon at Sling Arms.

PORT ARMS FROM SLING ARMS
B-15. To execute Port Arms from Sling Arms, use the following procedures:
 The command for this movement is Port, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, reach
across the body with the left hand and grasp the sling at the shoulder. Lift the weapon (by the
sling), swing it to the front of the body, and grasp the small of the stock with the right hand.
Release the sling (left hand) and regrasp the weapon just forward of the slip ring. Ensure that the
rifle is 4 inches from the belt and held diagonally across the body. Keep the elbows in at the sides
and the right forearm horizontal.
 To resume Sling Arms, the command is Sling, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS,
grasp the sling near the upper sling swivel with the left hand. Release the right hand and swing the
rifle back onto the shoulder by placing the right arm between the sling and rifle, immediately
resume the position of Sling Arms.

May

TC 3-21.5

B-11

Appendix B

INSPECTION ARMS FROM SLING ARMS
B-16. To execute Inspection Arms from Sling Arms, use the following procedures:
 The command for this movement is Inspection, ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS,
execute Port Arms and then execute counts three through seven in the same manner as for
Inspection Arms from Order Arms.
 Ready, Port, ARMS is executed in the same manner as explained in the manual of arms.
 To resume Sling Arms, the procedures are the same as from Port Arms.
 To execute Inspection Arms when the magazine is in the rifle, remove the magazine (just before
count three) with the left hand and place it between the waist (left front) and the clothing. Return
the magazine immediately after pulling the trigger and before resuming Port Arms. If the pistol
belt is worn, the magazine will be placed between the pistol belt and the clothing (left front).

B-12

TC 3-21.5

May

Appendix C

Manual of Arms—M14 Rifle
The manual of arms with the M14 (see figure C-1) rifle is executed in the same manner
as the manual of arms for the M16-series rifle (see appendix B) except Inspection Arms,
Stack Arms, Order Arms, and some movements of Present Arms.

Figure C-1. Nomenclature, M14 rifle

ORDER ARMS
C-1. Execute Order Arms in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle. The only difference is
the butt of the rifle will be placed on the marching surface with the toe of the butt on line with the front of
the right foot (see figure C-2 on page C-2).

REST POSITION
C-2. Execute the Rest position in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle. The only difference
is the toe of the butt of the rifle must be on line with the front of the right foot (see figure C-2 on page C-2).

May

TC 3-21.5

C-1

Appendix C

PORT ARMS
C-3. Execute Port Arms in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle. The only difference is
the Soldier must grasp the weapon with the left hand “at the balance.” (Figure C-2 shows the location of the
balance.)

Figure C-2. Order Arms, Parade Rest, and Port Arms

PRESENT ARMS
C-4. To execute Present Arms with the M14 rifle (see figure C-3 on page C-4), use the following procedures:
 When at Order Arms, the left arm moves across the body on count one with the forearm and wrist
straight, fingers and thumb extended and joined, and palm down. The first joint of the forefinger
touches the rifle at a point below the bayonet stud. If not in ranks, the head and eyes turn toward
the person or Color saluted. On count two, the left hand is moved smartly to the side and the head
and eyes are turned to the front.

C-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M14 Rifle

Note. When not at Order Arms, execute the movement in the same manner as previously described
for the M16-series rifle in appendix B.




When at Right Shoulder Arms, the movement is executed by moving the left arm across the chest
and touching the first joint of the forefinger to the rear of the receiver. The left elbow is held so
that the left forearm is horizontal. Fingers, thumb, and wrist are held as for Order Arms. The palm
is down. Count two of the rifle Salute at Right Shoulder Arms is similar to the return from the rifle
Salute at Order Arms.
When at Left Shoulder Arms, the Salute is executed by moving the right arm across the chest and
touching the first joint of the forefinger to the rear of the receiver. The right elbow is held so that
the forearm is horizontal. The fingers, thumb, and wrist are as described in paragraph C-4. The
palm is down. Count two is similar to the return from the rifle Salute at Right Shoulder Arms.

RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS
C-5. Execute Right Shoulder Arms in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle. The only
difference is the term “charging” must be changed to “receiver” (see figure C-3 on page C-4).

LEFT SHOULDER ARMS
C-6. Execute Left Shoulder Arms in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle (see figure C-3
on page C-4).

May

TC 3-21.5

C-3

Appendix C

Figure C-3. Present Arms, Right Shoulder Arms, and Left Shoulder Arms

INSPECTION ARMS
C-7. Inspection Arms with the M14 rifle (see figure C-4) is executed in five counts:
 Counts one and two are the same as with the M16-series rifle (Port Arms). On count three, release
the small of the stock and move the right hand forward (fingers extended and joined, thumb on the
opposite side of the receiver). Place the knife edge on the hand in contact with the operating rod
handle. On count four, press the operating rod handle sharply to the rear and lock the bolt to the
rear by pressing the bolt lock with the thumb. At the same time, lower the head and eyes to check
the receiver. On count five, raise the head and eyes back to the front and regrasp the small of the
stock with the right hand, assuming the Inspection Arms position.
 Ready, Port, ARMS is the only command that is given from Inspection Arms. On the command
Ready, relax the grip of the right hand and hook the top of the forefinger to the rear. On the
command Port, release the operating rod handle (allowing the bolt to go forward) and place the
forefinger on the trigger. On the command of execution ARMS, pull the trigger and come to
Port Arms.

C-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M14 Rifle

Figure C-4. Inspection Arms

FIX AND UNFIX BAYONETS
C-8. Execute Fix and Unfix Bayonets in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle. The
command for this movement also remains the same.

SLING ARMS
C-9. Execute Sling Arms in the same manner as explained for the M16-series rifle. The command for this
movement also remains the same.

STACK AND TAKE ARMS
C-10. Execute Stack Arms using the following procedures:
 Stack Arms is executed from Order Arms only. It may be executed while at Normal Interval in a
line (squad) or a column formation. Stack Arms is not a precise movement; however, it is executed
in a military manner.

May

TC 3-21.5

C-5

Appendix C









C-6

The leader designates the stack person by numbers (for example, 2-5-8) when in a line formation,
or by squad (second or third) when in a column formation. After the stack person have been
designated, the leader then commands Prepare, SLINGS.
On the command SLINGS, each stack person places the butt of their rifle on their right hip and
cradles it in the crook of their right arm. They then adjust the sling keeper to form a 2-inch loop
next to the upper sling swivel. As soon as they have prepared the loop, they return to Order Arms.
When all stack persons have returned to Order Arms, the leader commands Stack, ARMS. On the
command ARMS, each stack person places their rifle directly in front of and centered on their
body with the sling facing to the front. The heel of the rifle butt is on the marching surface on line
with the toes of their shoes. They grasp the rifle by the handguard with their left hand. The first
two fingers of the left hand hold the inner part of the loop against the rifle. They reach across the
front of the rifle with the right hand, grasp the outer part of the loop, and hold it open for the
insertion of the other rifles. They hold the rifle vertical at all times (see figure C-5, item 1).
On the command ARMS, the Soldier to the left and right of the stack person perform the following
movements simultaneously:
 The Soldier on the stack person’s left raises and centers their rifle in front of their body so
that their right hand is shoulder high and the rifle is about 4 inches from their chest, with the
sling to the front. They then grasp the rifle with their left hand at the small of the stock and
lowers both arms, holding the weapon in a horizontal position (see figure C-5, item 1).
 The Soldier on the stack person’s right raises and centers their rifle, wrist shoulder high, with
the sling facing the front. They then grasp the rifle with their left hand directly below their
right hand, and, in the most convenient manner, grasp the rifle with the right hand at the small
of the stock. They then lower both arms, holding the rifle stock. They then lower both arms,
holding the rifle in a horizontal position (see figure C-5, item 1).
 As soon as both Soldiers have completed these movements, each moves the foot nearest the
stack person 18 inches (Half Left or Right) toward the stack person. In a continuing motion,
the Soldier on the stack person’s left inserts the muzzle of their rifle into the loop held by the
stack person until the bayonet stud protrudes past the far end of the loop (see figure C-5,
item 2). They hold their rifle in that position until the Soldier on the stack person’s right inserts
the muzzle of their rifle through the loop in the same manner and above the muzzle of the
rifle of the left Soldier.

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M14 Rifle

Figure C-5. Stack Arms







May

When both rifles have been inserted into the loop, the Soldier on each side of the stack person
swing the butts of their rifles out and down to the marching surface until the stack is tight with the
(two) rifle butts on line and about 2 feet from the baseline.
After necessary adjustments have been made, the three Soldiers come to Attention (see figure C-5,
item 3).
Extra rifles are passed to the nearest stack on the right. As each rifle is passed, it is grasped at the
upper part of the handguard with the right hand. Then, with the rifle held vertical, it is passed with
fully extended arm to the right front. The Soldier on the right grasps the rifle at the balance with
their left hand, brings the rifle to the center of their body, and regrasps it at the upper part of the
handguard with their right hand. This action continues until the stack person receives the rifle and
places it on the stack with their right hand as nearly vertical as possible. They place the rifles on
the stack with the slings away from the stack (if the second squad is the stack squad, extra rifles
are passed to the left).
To Take Arms, the leader commands Take, ARMS.

TC 3-21.5

C-7

Appendix C








C-8

On the command ARMS, the stack person passes each extra rifle toward its bearer. The rifles
are handled in the manner described for passing them to the stack (left hand at the balance,
right hand at the upper part of the handguard). As Soldiers receive their rifles, they come to
Order Arms.
After all extra rifles have been returned, the stack person grasps the base rifles, holding the
loop open as in Stack Arms.
The Soldiers to the right and left of the stack person take one step to their left and right fronts,
respectively. They reach down, grasp their rifles, and bring the rifles to a horizontal position.
The Soldier to the right of the stack person frees their rifle from the stack first. Each Soldier
returns to Order Arms after Unsling Arms and retrieves their rifle. They do this by guiding
and steadying the rifle with their left hand (as in the next to the last count of Order Arms).
The stack person adjusts the sling of their rifle before returning to Order Arms.

TC 3-21.5

May

Appendix D

Manual of Arms—M1903 or M1917 Rifle
The manual of arms with the M1903 or M1917 rifle (see figure D-1) is executed in the
same manner as the manual of arms for the M16-series rifle (see appendix B) except
for minor differences with Order Arms, Port Arms, Left and Right Shoulder Arms,
Inspection Arms, and Present Arms. For ease of understanding, the movements are
fully described.

Figure D-1. Nomenclature, M1903 or M1917 rifle
Note. The term “at the balance” refers to where the trailing edge of the top handguard meets the
front edge of the breech. The trailing edge of the hand is placed in this area. Figure D-1 shows the
location of the balance.

ORDER ARMS
D-1. Execute Order Arms using the following procedures:
 Assume Order Arms on the command FALL IN or from Parade Rest on the command of
execution ATTENTION.
 At Order Arms, maintain the Position of Attention with the rifle. Place the butt of the rifle on the
marching surface with sights to the rear and touching the right foot. Place the toe of the butt on

May

TC 3-21.5

D-1

Appendix D

line with the front of the right foot. Secure the rifle with the right hand in a “U” formed by the
fingers (extended and joined) and thumb. Keep the right arm as in the Position of Attention and
hold the rifle with the right thumb and fingers with the fingers pointed generally downward and
touching the sides of the handguards. Keep the right hand and arm behind the rifle (see figure D-2).

Figure D-2. Position of Attention and Parade Rest

REST POSITION
D-2. The rifle Rest positions are commanded and executed the same as individual drill with the following
additions:
 On the command of execution REST of Parade, REST, thrust the muzzle forward keeping the
toe of the butt on line with the front of the right foot and the right arm straight (see figure D-2).
 Execute Stand at Ease with the rifle in the same manner as Parade Rest except turn the head and
eyes toward the commander.
 On the command AT EASE or REST, keep the butt of the rifle in place as in Parade Rest.

D-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M1903 or M1917 Rifle

PORT ARMS
D-3. Execute Port Arms from Order Arms using the following procedures:
 Port Arms from Order Arms is a two-count movement. The command is Port, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, grasp the rifle with the right hand and raise the rifle diagonally
across the body, keeping the right elbow down (without strain). With the left hand, simultaneously
grasp the rifle at the balance so that the rifle is about 4 inches from the waist. On count two, regrasp
the rifle at the small of the stock with the right hand. Hold the rifle diagonally across the body,
about 4 inches from the waist, the right forearm horizontal, and the elbows close to the sides (see
figure D-3 on page D-4).
 Order Arms from Port Arms is executed in three counts. The command is Order, ARMS. On the
command of execution ARMS, move the right hand up and across the body and firmly grasp the
rifle just forward of the lower band without moving the rifle, and keep the right elbow down
without strain. On count two, move the left hand from the balance and lower the rifle to the right
side until it is about 1 inch from the marching surface. Guide the rifle to the side by placing the
forefinger of the left hand at the forward edge of the upper band, fingers and thumb extended and
joined, palm to the rear. On count three, move the left hand sharply to the left side, gently lower
the rifle to the marching surface, and resume the position of Order Arms (see figure D-3 on
page D-4).

May

TC 3-21.5

D-3

Appendix D

Figure D-3. Order Arms from Port Arms

PRESENT ARMS
D-4. Execute Present Arms using the following procedures:
 Present Arms from Order Arms is a three-count movement. The command is Present, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts. On count three, twist the
rifle with the right hand so that the sights are to the rear, and move the rifle to a vertical position
about 4 inches in front of and centered on the body. Lower the rifle until the left forearm is
horizontal; keep the elbows in at the sides. Keep the left thumb alongside and touching the
handguard.
Note. Incline the barrel slightly backward to ensure that the weapon is vertical.

D-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M1903 or M1917 Rifle




Order Arms from Present Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS. On
the command of execution ARMS, return the rifle to Port Arms. Counts two, three, and four are
the same as Order Arms from Port Arms (see figure D-4).
Port Arms is assumed en route to or from Present Arms when going to or from Right Shoulder or
Left Shoulder Arms. Present Arms from or to Port Arms is a one-count movement. When rendering
reports or courtesy to an individual from Order Arms, execute Present Arms and turn the head and
eyes toward the individual addressed. Order Arms is executed automatically upon
acknowledgment of the Salute.

Figure D-4. Order Arms from Present Arms

May

TC 3-21.5

D-5

Appendix D

RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS
D-5. Execute Right Shoulder Arms using the following procedures:
 Right Shoulder Arms from Order Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Right
Shoulder, ARMS. Execute count one, the command of execution ARMS, the same as in executing
Port Arms. On count two, release the grasp of the right hand and grasp the heel of the butt between
the first two fingers with the thumb and forefinger touching. On count three (without moving the
head), release the grasp of the left hand (without changing the grasp of the right hand), twist the
rifle so that the sights are up, and place the weapon onto the right shoulder, moving the left hand
to the small of the stock to guide the rifle to the shoulder. Keep the fingers and thumb (left hand)
extended and joined with the palm turned toward the body. The first joint of the left forefinger
touches the rear of the cocking piece. Keep the left elbow down, and keep the right forearm
horizontal with the right upper arm against the side and on line with the back. On count four,
sharply move the left hand back to the left side as in the Position of Attention (see figure D-5).
 Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS.
On the command of execution ARMS, without moving the head and without changing the grasp
of the right hand, press down quickly and firmly on the butt of the rifle with the right hand and
twist the weapon (with the sights up), guiding it diagonally across the body and about 4 inches
from the waist. Grasp the rifle with the left hand at the balance. On count two, move the right hand
up and across the body and firmly grasp the rifle just forward of the lower band without moving
the rifle; keep the right elbow down without strain. Counts three and four are the same as from
Port Arms to Order Arms (see figure D-5).

D-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M1903 or M1917 Rifle

Figure D-5. Right Shoulder Arms from Order Arms and Order Arms from Right Shoulder Arms

May

TC 3-21.5

D-7

Appendix D

LEFT SHOULDER ARMS
D-6. Execute Left Shoulder Arms using the following procedures:
 Left Shoulder Arms from Order Arms is a four-count movement. The command is Left Shoulder,
ARMS. On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts. On count three,
release the grasp of the left hand and (without moving the head) place the rifle on the left shoulder
with the right hand (with the sights up), keeping the right elbow down. At the same time, regrasp
the rifle with the left hand with the heel of the butt between the first two fingers and with the
thumb and forefinger touching. The left forearm is horizontal, and the left upper arm is against the
side and on line with the back. On count four, move the right hand to the right side as in the
Position of Attention (see figure D-6).
 Order Arms from Left Shoulder Arms is a five-count movement. The command is Order, ARMS.
On the command of execution ARMS, move the right hand up and across the body and grasp the
small of the stock, keeping the right elbow down. On count two (without moving the head), release
the grasp of the left hand and with the right hand move the rifle diagonally across the body (sights
up) about 4 inches from the waist. At the same time, regrasp the rifle at the balance with the left
hand, and resume Port Arms (see figure D-6). Counts three, four, and five are the same as Order
Arms from Port Arms.

D-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M1903 or M1917 Rifle

Figure D-6. Left Shoulder Arms from Order Arms and Order Arms from Left Shoulder Arms

May

TC 3-21.5

D-9

Appendix D

INSPECTION ARMS
D-7. Execute Inspection Arms using the following procedures:
 Inspection Arms from Order Arms is a five-count movement. The command is Inspection, ARMS.
On the command of execution ARMS, execute Port Arms in two counts. On count three, grasp
the bolt handle with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, rotate the handle upward and draw
the bolt back. On count four, lower the head and eyes and visually inspect the magazine. On count
five, return the head and eyes to the front as in the Position of Attention, and come to Inspection
Arms (see figure D-7).
Note. The method for inspecting the rifle by an inspecting officer is explained in chapter 7.


D-10

Port, ARMS is the only command given from Inspection Arms. On the command Port, push the
bolt forward and rotate the handle down locking the bolt in place, then release the grasp of the
right hand and regrasp the small of the stock with the right forefinger on the trigger. On the
command ARMS, pull the trigger and resume Port Arms (see figure D-7).

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—M1903 or M1917 Rifle

Figure D-7. Inspection Arms from Order Arms and Port Arms from Inspection Arms

May

TC 3-21.5

D-11

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix E

Manual of Arms—Saber and Sword
The saber is worn by officers while participating in ceremonies with troops under arms,
or as directed. It is carried on the left side of the body attached to the belt by the
scabbard chain with the guard of the saber to the rear. The sword is worn by all platoon
sergeants and first sergeants while participating in ceremonies with troops under arms,
or as directed. It is carried in the same manner as the officer’s saber.

NOMENCLATURE
E-1. The nomenclature for the saber is saber for all officers, model 1902. The blade is 31 inches long. The
nomenclature for the sword is NCO’s sword, model 1840. Figure E-1 on page E-2 shows the nomenclature
for pertinent parts of the saber (sword) and scabbard.

May

TC 3-21.5

E-1

Appendix E

Figure E-1. Nomenclature, saber and sword

STANDING MANUAL OF ARMS
E-2. Execute Standing with the saber (sword) using the following procedures.

ATTENTION
E-3. Attention is the position before the command Draw, SABER (SWORD) and after the command
Return, SABER (SWORD). The hands are behind the trouser seams and the thumbs touch the first joint of
the forefingers (see figure E-2).

E-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—Saber and Sword

Figure E-2. Position of Attention, saber and sword

DRAW SABER (SWORD)
E-4. To Draw Saber (Sword), at the preparatory command Draw, grasp the scabbard with the left hand
turning the scabbard clockwise 180 degrees, tilting it forward to form an angle of 45 degrees with the ground.
Take the saber (sword) grip in the right hand and pull the saber about 6 inches from the scabbard. The right
forearm should now be roughly parallel to the ground as seen in figure E-3 on page E-4.
E-5. On the command of execution SABER (SWORD), the saber (sword) is pulled out of the scabbard and
held in the position of Carry Saber (Sword). The saber (sword) should be held with the inner blade-edge
riding in a vertical position along the forward tip of the right shoulder (see figure E-4 on page E-5).

May

TC 3-21.5

E-3

Appendix E

Figure E-3. Draw Saber (Sword)

CARRY SABER (SWORD)
E-6. The Carry Saber (Sword) position is assumed under the following situations:
 To give commands.
 To change positions.
 By officers when officially addressing (or when officially addressed by) another officer, if the
saber is drawn.
 By NCOs when officially addressing a Soldier, or when officially addressed by an officer, if the
sword is drawn.
 Before returning the saber (sword) to the scabbard.
 At the preparatory command for (and while marching at) quick time.

E-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—Saber and Sword

E-7. At Carry Saber (Sword) (see figure E-4), the officer (NCO) is at the Position of Attention. The saber
(sword) is held in the right hand; the wrist is as straight as possible with the thumb along the seam of the
trouser leg. The point of the blade rests inside the point of the shoulder and not along the arm. The saber
(sword) is held in this position by the thumb and forefinger grasping the grip, and it is steadied with the
second finger behind the grip.

Figure E-4. Carry Saber
E-8. Present Saber (Sword) may be executed from the carry when serving in the capacity of COT or serving
in a command that is not part of a larger unit. On the preparatory command of Present, the saber (sword) is
brought to a position (at the rate, of two counts) approximately 4 inches from the nose so that the tip of the
saber (sword) is 6 inches from the vertical (see figure E-5, item 1 on page E-6). At the command of execution
ARMS, the right hand is lowered (at the rate of two counts) with the flat of the blade upward, the thumb
extended on the left side of the grip (see figure E-5, item 2 on page E-6), and the tip of the saber (sword)
about 6 inches from the marching surface.

May

TC 3-21.5

E-5

Appendix E

Figure E-5. Present Saber (Sword)
E-9. On the command Order ARMS, the saber (sword) is returned to the position of Carry Saber (Sword).

PARADE REST
E-10. This position is assumed without moving the saber (sword) from the Order Arms position. At the
command of execution, the left foot is moved about 10 inches to the left (of the right foot), and the left hand
is placed in the small of the back, fingers extended and joined, palm to the rear (see figure E-6). At the
command of execution ATTENTION, the left hand and foot are returned to the Position of Attention.

E-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—Saber and Sword

Figure E-6. Parade Rest
Note. Whenever the saber (sword) is at the Order Arms position the saber (sword) is straight, not
at an angle inward or outward in relationship to the body.

RETURN SABER (SWORD)
E-11. Return Saber is executed from Carry Saber (Sword) in three counts. At the preparatory command
Return of the command officers (NCOs), Return, SABER (SWORD), the saber (sword) is brought to a
vertical position (see figure E-7, item 1 on page E-8). The forearm (wrist) is held parallel to the marching
surface about 3 inches from the body; the guard is pointed to the left.
E-12. At the command of execution SABER (SWORD), three actions take place simultaneously: the saber
(sword) is pivoted downward toward the guard, at the same time grasp the scabbard with the left hand just
above the upper brass ring mounting. Tilt it forward and turn it clockwise 180 degrees. The scabbard should

May

TC 3-21.5

E-7

Appendix E

form a 45-degree angle with the ground, and the saber (sword) bearer turns their head to the left and, looks
down to observe the mouthpiece of the scabbard (the shoulders remain squared to the front and level). As
smoothly and as quickly as possible, the saber (sword) is inserted into the scabbard and stopped so that about
12 inches of the blade is showing; the right forearm (wrist) is horizontal to the marching surface and 3 inches
from the body (see figure E-7, item 2).
E-13. At the command of execution CUT of the command Ready, CUT, the saber (sword) is thrust smartly
into the scabbard. The scabbard is rotated so that its tip is forward, and the saber (sword) bearer comes to
Attention (see figure E-7, item 3).

Figure E-7. Return Saber (Sword)

MARCHING MANUAL OF ARMS
E-14. While marching, the saber (sword) is carried with the inner blade edge riding in a vertical position
along the forward tip of the right shoulder (see figure E-8). The saber (sword) remains parallel with the right
arm as the Soldier marches.

E-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—Saber and Sword

Figure E-8. Marching position

EYES RIGHT WHILE MARCHING
E-15. The command Ready, Eyes, RIGHT is executed while marching at Carry Saber (Sword). The
command Ready is given as the right foot strikes the marching surface (no action is taken). The second time
the right foot strikes the marching surface, the command Eyes is given and the saber (sword) is brought to
the position (count one position) of Present Arms. No action is taken the third time the right foot strikes the
marching surface. The fourth time the right foot strikes the marching surface, the command RIGHT is given.
As the foot strikes the marching surface, the head is turned sharply to the right at a 45-degree angle, and the
saber (sword) is brought downward (see figure E-9 on page E-10).
Note. The initial preparatory command Ready is only used when marching with a guidon bearer.

May

TC 3-21.5

E-9

Appendix E

Figure E-9. Eyes Right while marching
E-16. While marching at Present Saber (Sword), the right arm is swung naturally (9 inches to the front and
6 inches to the rear) in a vertical plane, flexing the wrist to keep the tip of the blade level (about 6 inches)
above the marching surface. This requires extending the wrist on the forward movement and elevating the
wrist on the rearward movement.
E-17. The command Ready, FRONT is executed as follows: The command Ready is given as the right foot
strikes the marching surface (no action is taken). The second time the right foot strikes the marching surface,
a second command Ready is given (again, no action is taken). The saber (sword) is returned to the Order
position while maintaining the arm swing as the right foot strikes the marching surface the third time. The
fourth time the right foot strikes the marching surface the command FRONT is given. The head is turned
sharply to the front as the right foot strikes the marching surface and the saber (sword) is returned to the
Carry position the next time the left foot strikes the marching surface.

E-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of Arms—Saber and Sword

PORT ARMS
E-18. Port Arms (see figure E-10) is executed on the preparatory command Double Time of the command
Double Time, MARCH. This position is assumed only from the position of Carry Saber (Sword). The right
arm swings naturally across and 6 inches in front of the body. The saber (sword) is canted 45 degrees from
the vertical with the guard pointed to the left. The left hand grasps the scabbard.

Figure E-10. Port Arms

May

TC 3-21.5

E-11

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix F

Manual of the Guidon
The guidon is a company, battery, or troop identification flag. It is present at all unit
formations unless otherwise directed by the commander.
When armed with a rifle, the guidon bearer slings the weapon behind their back with
the sling diagonally across their chest and the muzzle end up and to the right.

BASIC GUIDON POSITIONS
F-1. When the unit is formed, the guidon bearer is one step in front of and two 15-inch left steps to the right
of and facing the person forming the unit (the person forming the unit is facing the unit). If the first sergeant
forms the unit, the guidon bearer steps forward three steps on the command POST.
F-2. To face with the guidon, raise the ferrule 1 inch off the marching surface by bending the right elbow
slightly. After executing the movement, automatically lower the ferrule to the Order position. Keep the staff
vertical throughout the movement.
F-3. Execute facing movements, marching movements, Present Arms (Present Guidon), and Rest
movements with the unit. During manual of arms movements, remain at Order Guidon except for Present
Arms (see figure F-1 on page F-2).
F-4. When in a line formation and the company is faced to the right for a marching movement, face to the
right in marching, assume the Double-Time position (see figure F-7 on page F-8) and double-time from that
position to a position five steps forward of and centered on the squad leaders of the first platoon. If the
company commander joins the formation at the head of the column (six steps in front of and centered on the
squad leaders), execute two left steps.
F-5. If a platoon is authorized a guidon or phase banner (in training units for example), the bearer’s post is
one step in front of and two 15-inch steps to the right of and facing the person forming the platoon. When
the formation is faced to the right for a marching movement, the bearer executes in the same manner as
explained above, except that their post is three steps in front of and centered on the squad leaders. If the
platoon leader is present and at their post, the bearer’s post is one step to the rear and two 15-inch steps to
the left of the platoon leader.
F-6. When the guidon bearer is marching at their post in a column formation during a Column Left (Right),
they execute a Column Half Left (Right) on the command of execution and incline as necessary to maintain
their post. The guidon bearer inclines as necessary to maintain their post.
Note. Execute raised guidon only on the preparatory commands for Present, ARMS; Eyes,
RIGHT; and on the preparatory command Order of Order, ARMS following the execution of
Present Arms and Eyes Right. Also execute Raised Guidon on the preparatory command Ready of
Ready, FRONT.

ORDER GUIDON
F-7. Order Guidon (Position of Attention), keep the ferrule on the marching surface and touching the outside
of the right foot, opposite the ball of the right foot. Hold the staff in the right hand in the “U” formed by the
fingers (extended and joined pointing downward) and thumb. Keep the right hand and arm behind the staff.
Rest the staff against the hollow of the shoulder (see figure F-1 on page F-2).

May

TC 3-21.5

F-1

Appendix F

Figure F-1. Order Guidon

REST POSITIONS
F-8. To assume Rest positions, execute the following actions:
 On the preparatory command Parade, slide the right hand up the staff until the forearm is
horizontal and grasp the staff (see figure F-2, item 1). On the command of execution REST, thrust
the staff straight forward keeping the ferrule on the marching surface until the arm is fully
extended, and at the same time, execute Parade Rest as in individual drill (see figure F-2, item 2).
 Stand At Ease is the same as Parade Rest, except that the eyes and head are turned toward the
commander.
 Execute At Ease and Rest with the guidon from the Order Guidon position.

F-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of the Guidon

Figure F-2. Parade Rest

CARRY GUIDON
F-9. To assume the position of Carry Guidon, execute the following actions:
 On the preparatory command for marching movements, execute Carry Guidon from Order Guidon
by reaching across the body with the left hand (forearm horizontal) and grasping the staff (see
figure F-3 on page F-4). Raise the staff vertically 6 inches allowing the staff to slide through the
right hand. While the staff is sliding through the right hand, release the grasp and regrasp the staff
with right thumb to the front, pointed downward and on line with the seam of the trousers. On the
command of execution MARCH, return the left hand smartly to the left side and simultaneously
step off (see figure F-3, on page F-4).
 To resume Order Guidon from Carry Guidon, reach across the body with the left hand (forearm
horizontal) and grasp the staff. Let the staff slide through the hands until the ferrule touches the

May

TC 3-21.5

F-3

Appendix F



marching surface. Re-grasp the staff in the same manner as in Order Guidon and then return the
left hand sharply to the side as in the position of attention.
When double-timing, carry the guidon diagonally across the body in the same manner as
Port Arms.

Figure F-3. Carry position

RAISED GUIDON
F-10. On the preparatory command Present of Present, ARMS and Eyes of Eyes, RIGHT, raise the guidon
vertically, by grasping the staff with the right hand. Raise the guidon with the right hand while simultaneously
moving the left hand (with palm to the rear) across the body to guide the guidon (see figure F-4, item 1).
Keep raising the guidon until the right hand is on line with the right shoulder. Keep the right elbow into the
side. Hold the guidon in this position until the command of execution is given (see figure F-4, item 2).

F-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of the Guidon

Note. When executing Raised Guidon from Carry Guidon, the bearer changes their grip to the
Order Guidon position when they grasp the staff with their left hand. The bearer then executes
Raised Guidon as previously described in paragraph F-10. The bearer returns to Carry Guidon
from Raised Guidon as described in paragraph F-9.

Figure F-4. Raised guidon

PRESENT GUIDON
F-11. To assume this position, execute the following actions:
 On the preparatory commands for Present, ARMS and Eyes, RIGHT, execute Raised Guidon.
On the command of execution, lower the guidon to the front using the right hand, keeping the left
hand in the same position as Raised Guidon until the guidon is in the horizontal position resting
under the arm pit. As soon as the staff is horizontal, return the left hand sharply to the left side
(see figure F-5 on page F-6).

May

TC 3-21.5

F-5

Appendix F





During a review, execute Eyes Right as the guidon is presented on the command of execution
RIGHT. Move the head and eyes to the front as the guidon is raised on the command Ready of
Ready, FRONT.
On the command Order of Order, ARMS or Ready of Ready, FRONT, regrasp the staff with the
left hand at its original position and execute Raised Guidon. On the command of execution ARMS
or FRONT, lower the guidon back to the carry or order position.

Figure F-5. Present guidon

GUIDON BEARER’S SALUTE
F-12. When the guidon bearer (not in formation) has to salute from the order or carry position, the Salute is
given with the left hand. To achieve this position, execute the following actions:
 Move the left hand sharply to a position so that the first joint of the forefinger is touching the staff.
The fingers and thumb are extended and joined, palm down, wrist straight, and forearm horizontal
(see figure F-6).

F-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Manual of the Guidon

Figure F-6. Guidon bearer’s Salute



May

After the Salute is acknowledged, return the left hand sharply to the side.
When at Double Time (not in formation), return to Quick Time, returning the guidon to the carry
position and render the guidon Salute as previously described. Upon completing the Salute return
to the carry position and resume Double Time (see figure F-7 on page F-8).

TC 3-21.5

F-7

Appendix F

Figure F-7. Double Time

F-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Appendix G

Ceremonies
This appendix contains a checklist for successfully conducting military ceremonies. It
also shows the sequence of events for a change of command and change of
responsibility ceremonies.
G-1. Ceremonies honor lineage and history, thereby requiring the utmost in respect and courtesy. Military
ceremonies can honor high-ranking commanders, officials, or dignitaries; or permit them to observe the state
of training of an organization. Military ceremonies can also be used to present decorations and awards, honor
or recognize unit or individual achievements, commemorate events, mark changes of command and
responsibility, and induct newly promoted NCOs into the ranks. Presentation of awards recognizes
distinguished accomplishment by the Service member. AR 600-8-22 states that awards will be presented with
an appropriate air of formality and with fitting ceremony.
G-2. There are several different types of ceremonies that units will occasionally conduct. Unit CSMs and
their staff will develop their own sequence of events for the following types of ceremonies:
 Change of command.
 Change of responsibility.
 NCO induction.
 Assumption of responsibility.
 Relinquishment of responsibility.
 Award.
 Deployment and redeployment.
 Hail and farewell.
 Army school graduation (special units).
 Award of Expert Infantry Badge or Expert Field Medical Badge.
 Wreath laying.
 Special events.
 Spurs awarding (Cavalry specific).
G-3. Most ceremonies will include some of the mandatory events listed in the reviews chapter and end with
the playing of the Army song. A unit CSM or their designated representative develops their ceremony specific
SOP and ensure the preparedness of the unit conducting the ceremony. If the ceremony is conducted at the
company or troop level, then the responsibilities for the sequence of events could be delegated to the company
first sergeant and command team. Hail and farewells do not require the playing of the national anthem or
playing of the Army song. Figure G-1 on page G-2 shows a sample checklist for conducting military
ceremonies.

May

TC 3-21.5

G-1

Appendix G

Figure G-1. Military ceremony sample checklist

CHANGE OF COMMAND SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
G-4. Use the following sequence of events for a change-of-command ceremony:
 Prelude music.
 Formation of troops.

G-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Ceremonies

























Welcome (narrator).
Introduction of official party (narrator).
Invocation.
Presentation of flowers to outgoing and incoming commander’s spouse.
Sound Attention and Adjutant’s Call.
Sound off.
COT moves to parade field.
Honors and cannon salute.
Reviewing party moves to reviewing stand.
Inspection.
Officer and Colors center march.
Honors to the Nation.
COT moves guidon forward.
Official party moves to four steps from guidon.
Official party or first sergeant takes position.
Narrator reads assumption of command orders.
Guidon is passed.
COT returns guidon.
Reviewing officer comments.
Outgoing, then incoming, commander comments.
Army song.
Narrator announces conclusion and administrative remarks.
COT dismisses troops.

CHANGE-OF-RESPONSIBILITY SEQUENCE OF EVENTS
G-5. Use the following sequence of events for a change-of-responsibility ceremony:
 Prelude music.
 Formation of troops (10 minutes prior).
 Warning that ceremony is to begin in 10 minutes.
 Introduction of official party and distinguished guests.
 Silence all cell phones and take seats (2 minutes prior).
 Host CSM and reviewing officer assume positions.
 Welcome (narrator).
 Invocation by the unit chaplain.
 Presentation of flowers to outgoing and incoming NCOs’ spouses.
 Official party marches to their positions.
 Colors conduct center march and join official party.
 Honors to the Nation.
 Units bring themselves to Attention and Present Arms.
 Playing of the national anthem.
 Change of responsibility (passing of the unit guidon).
 Remarks from commander, then outgoing and incoming NCOs.
 Playing and singing of the Army song.
 Conclusion of ceremony.

May

TC 3-21.5

G-3

Appendix G

ATTENTION TO ORDERS
G-6. “Attention to Orders” is the statement given prior to the formal presentation of an award or
recognition during a ceremony, in both a formal and informal setting. When the adjutant announces
“Attention to Orders” everyone present at the ceremony silence all conversations and focus on the
presentation of the award. If the commander requires military members present at the ceremony to be at the
position of Attention, then execution command ATTENTION is given prior to the presentation of the award.
Please see the example below.

Example:
Formal setting: During a squadron award ceremony the unit is in a squadron formation.
The squadron commander calls all awardees to post. The awardees march to a
designated spot in front of the formation and are prepared to receive their awards. The
squadron commander announces Squadron, ATTENTION. They then direct the
adjutant to publish the orders. The adjutant reads off all Soldier’s awards to the entire
formation while the squadron commander and CSM present the awards to the
awardees.
Informal setting: During a troop hail and farewell ceremony at a local establishment or
banquet hall, the troop commander presents a few permanent change of station
awards to deserving Soldiers. The troop commander would ask the awardees to move
to the front of the crowd to receive their award. The troop commander, at their
discretion, would then direct their executive officer or troop representative to publish
the orders. The adjutant would announce “Attention to Orders.” All personnel in
attendance of the ceremony would silence all conversations and direct all their
attention to the presentation of the award.

G-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Appendix H

Mounted Drill
This appendix contains the procedures for the orderly formation and movement of
vehicles during drill and ceremonies for motorized and mechanized units. When
necessary, the procedures may be modified to conform to local conditions.

GENERAL
H-1. Motorized and mechanized units, when dismounted, conduct drill and ceremonies in the same manner
as prescribed for Infantry units. The COT has the same responsibilities as well.
H-2. When mounted in vehicles, visible troops sit at Attention. Those armed with a rifle place the butt of
the weapon alongside the right foot in the same manner as Order Arms, with the weapon vertical and parallel
to the calf of the leg. Grasp the weapon with the right hand so that the right forearm is horizontal. Visible
troops not armed with a rifle, fold their arms (right over the left) and raise the elbows so that the upper arms
are horizontal.
H-3. When marching units and motorized and/or mechanized units take part in the same ceremony, the units
form dismounted (in a formation corresponding to the marching units) with their vehicles to the rear. On the
directive PASS IN REVIEW, the commander faces about and directs at your vehicles, FALL IN or
MOUNT (LOAD) YOUR VEHICLES. Subordinate commanders and leaders, in sequence from right to
left, command At your vehicles, FALL IN (MOUNT YOUR VEHICLES) and all vehicle members
double-time to their vehicle. On the signal to mount, they mount their vehicle. Drivers observe their
commander or leader for the signal to start engines.

FORMATIONS
H-4. The formations for motorized and mechanized units are basically the same as for Infantry units. The
interval between vehicles is about five steps. The distance is about 10 steps between vehicles one behind the
other. Mass formations may be used for ceremonies or instruction by companies or larger units:
 Column. In this formation, the vehicles are placed one behind the other, and the right edges of the
vehicles are aligned.
 Line. In this formation, vehicles are abreast, and the front edges of the vehicles are aligned.
 Mass. A unit formed with two or more columns abreast constitutes a mass. Masses may be grouped
as follows:
 Line of masses. Masses abreast with 10-step intervals (see figure H-1 on page H-2).
 Column of masses. Masses placed one behind another with 10-step intervals between
companies (see figure H-2 on page H-3).
 Line of battalions in line of masses. Battalions in line of masses abreast with 20-step intervals
between battalions.
 Line of battalions in column of masses. Battalions in column of masses abreast with 20-step
intervals between battalions.
 Column of battalions in line of masses. Battalions in line of masses, placed one behind
another, with 20-step intervals between battalions.
 Column of battalions in columns of masses. Battalions in column of masses, placed one
behind another, with 20-step intervals between battalions.

May

TC 3-21.5

H-1

Appendix H

Figure H-1. Armor battalions, line of mass with vehicles in mass formation

H-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Mounted Drill

Figure H-2. Column of masses

FORMATION AT VEHICLES
H-5. Personnel form at the vehicles before mounting using the following procedures:
 To form at the vehicles from any formation, the command is At your vehicles, FALL IN. At the
command FALL IN, the Soldiers move (double-time) to their assigned vehicles and form as
shown in figure H-3 on page H-4. When there are more than five Soldiers, they form two or three
ranks with normal distance. When there are more than 15 Soldiers, the number of Soldiers per
rank may be increased. (Artillery sections form as prescribed in service-of-the-piece manuals.)
 To load, the command is Load, VEHICLES. On the command of execution VEHICLES, each
Soldier double-times and forms at their vehicle (as previously described).

May

TC 3-21.5

H-3

Appendix H

Figure H-3. Formation at the vehicle

MOVEMENT OF VEHICLES
H-6. Execute the following actions to move vehicles:
 To move forward, the commander gives the warning signal FORWARD, and their vehicle moves
out. The other vehicles move forward at the designated distance. They are aligned on the base
vehicle (right).
 To halt, the commander signals HALT. The driver then slows down and halts the commander’s
vehicle. The other vehicles close to the prescribed distance and halt.
 To change the direction of travel of mass formation, the commander gives the appropriate signal.
On the commander’s signal, the base vehicle turns 90 degrees and slows. Other vehicles turn about
45 degrees and continue traveling in an arc at normal speed until on line with the base vehicle. As
the vehicles form on line, the base vehicle accelerates as necessary to maintain correct distance on
the commander.

H-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Mounted Drill





To change a line formation to a column formation, the commander signals for a column. The base
vehicle, and those directly behind it, move forward. Other vehicles move at a 45-degree angle until
in line with the lead vehicle and then execute a 45-degree turn.
To change a column formation to a line formation, the commander signals a line formation. The
base (right flank vehicle) stops and all other vehicles turn at a 45-degree angle, turn again at a
45-degree angle when the prescribed interval is obtained, and then halt when on line with the base
vehicle.

MOUNTED REVIEWS
H-7. Motorized and mechanized units conduct ceremonies as close as possible to the procedures prescribed
for other units. They may participate (exactly as prescribed for marching units) as a dismounted unit, and on
the directive PASS IN REVIEW, mount their vehicles and pass in review mounted. When desired, motorized
and mechanized units may position their vehicles in a prescribed formation and remain mounted throughout
the ceremony.

May

TC 3-21.5

H-5

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix I

Flags and Colors
Normally, a flag detail consists of one NCOIC, two halyard pullers, and two to eight
flag handlers. The purpose of the flag handlers is to ensure correct folding (unfolding)
of the flag and to ensure that the flag does not touch the ground. As a guide, two flag
handlers are needed when raising or lowering the storm (small) flag, six handlers for
the post (medium) flag, and eight handlers for the garrison (large) flag.
The members of the flag detail are equipped according to local SOP and/or letter of
instructions.
The NCOIC inconspicuously gives the necessary commands or directives to ensure
proper performance by the flag detail. On windy days, the NCOIC may assist the flag
handlers to secure or fold the flag. In most other situations, it is inappropriate for the
NCOIC to touch the flag when it is being folded or unfolded.

RAISING, LOWERING, AND FOLDING THE FLAG
I-1. Installation commanders set the time to play reveille and raise their installations flags. The flag is raised
at the first note of reveille. The flag is hoisted all the way to the top of the flagpole unless there are
circumstances that require the U.S. flag to be flown at half mass, and those circumstances could be found in
AR 600-25. If the flag is flown at half-staff the flag is first hoisted all the way to the top of the pole, and then
brought back down to half mass where it will remain until it is lowered.
I-2. Retreat is played at the time established by the installation commander, and the flag detail will lower
the flag concurrent with the playing of the national anthem, or “To the Color,” and after retreat. A cannon
salute will go off (if available) on the final note of retreat. The flag will be lowered to ensure completion of
the last note of the music. If the flag is being flown at half mast, it will be raised all the way to the top of the
flagpole before being lowered. The flag will be folded as discussed later in this appendix.

RAISING THE FLAG (REVEILLE)
I-3. Execute the following actions when raising the flag:
 The NCOIC forms the detail in a column of twos at Double Interval between files (see figure I-1
on page I-2). The NCOIC secures the flag from its storage area and positions themselves between
the files and on line with the last two Soldiers. The NCOIC then marches the detail to the flagpole.
 The detail is halted in a column, facing the flagpole on the downwind side or as appropriate. They
are halted so that the flagpole is centered between the halyard pullers. The NCOIC commands
POST. On this command, the halyard pullers immediately move to the flagpole and ensure that
the halyards are free of the pole. The flag handlers face to the center. The NCOIC then directs
UNFOLD THE FLAG. On this directive, the two flag handlers nearest the NCOIC begin to
(carefully) unfold the flag lengthwise, passing the freed end to the other handlers. When the two
handlers nearest the flagpole have firmly secured the flag, the other handlers move away from the
flagpole (as necessary) until the flag is fully extended. The flag is not unfolded widthwise. The
flag handlers hold the flag waist high with their forearms horizontal to the ground.

May

TC 3-21.5

I-1

Appendix I

Figure I-1. Flag detail


At the appropriate time, the NCOIC directs ATTACH THE FLAG. On this directive, all flag
handlers take one side step toward the flagpole. The two handlers nearest the flagpole immediately
attach the top of the flag to the halyard. The halyard pullers raise the flag until the bottom of the
flag can be attached.

Note. When raising the larger flags, the NCOIC may command Ready, STEP while the halyard
pullers raise the halyard until the lower portion of the flag is attached.


At the first note of the music, the reveille gun is fired and the halyard pullers rapidly raise the flag.
The NCOIC salutes. As the flag is raised from the handlers’ hands, they face the flagpole and
Salute. (Reveille is about 20 seconds in duration.) At the last note of the music, the NCOIC
commands Order, ARMS for themselves and the flag handlers while the pullers secure the
halyards. The NCOIC then positions themselves between the halyard pullers, executes an About
Face, and commands Ready, FACE. The detail will face in the appropriate direction to depart the
flagpole. They then march the detail from the site.

LOWERING THE FLAG (RETREAT)
I-4. Execute the following actions when lowering the flag:
 When lowering the flag. The detail is marched and positioned at the flagpole in the same manner
as when raising the flag. On the command POST, the halyard pullers free the halyards, untangle
them, ensure that they are free from the pole, and then temporarily resecure them; the flag handlers
do not face to the center. The NCOIC then commands Parade, REST.
 At the cannon shot or at the last note of “Retreat” (if a cannon is not fired), each halyard puller
immediately frees the halyards. The NCOIC commands themselves and the flag handlers to
ATTENTION and Present, ARMS. At the first note of “To the Color,” the flag is lowered slowly
and with dignity.
 The call, “To the Color,” is approximately 40 seconds in duration. As the flag is lowered to within
reach, the two flag handlers farthest away from the flag terminate their Salute, move forward
rapidly, secure the flag, and move back from the flagpole between the columns:
 As the flag passes each handler, they terminate their Salute and assist in securing the flag.
The flag is held palms down, fingers and thumb extended and joined, forearms horizontal.
The NCOIC terminates their Salute at the last note of the music.

I-2

TC 3-21.5

May

Flags and Colors



Once the flag is detached, it is then folded. (See figure I-2 on page I-4 for correct folding
techniques.) After securing the halyard, the handlers assist in the folding.

Note. When taking steps forward or backward to fold the flag, the members of the detail always
step off with the left foot and always bring the trail foot alongside the lead foot as in the Position
of Attention.

FOLD THE FLAG
I-5. Execute the following actions when folding the flag:
 To fold the flag the NCOIC commands Ready, STEP. All personnel take the appropriate number
of steps backward to ensure that the flag is horizontal, wrinkle free, and centered on the flagpole.
 The NCOIC then commands Ready, STEP. The flag handlers take the appropriate number of steps
toward each other, making the first fold lengthwise. The members on the NCOIC’s right ensure
that their edge of the flag is overlapping the left side by about an inch, which prevents any red
from showing when the folding is complete. The NCOIC ensures that the flag is straight.
 The NCOIC then commands Ready, TWO. The members of the column on the NCOIC’s left
reach down and secure the fold with the fingers pointing upward and the palms facing away.
 The NCOIC then commands Ready, THREE. The members take the appropriate number of steps
backward to ensure that the flag is horizontal, wrinkle free, and centered on the flagpole.
 Ready, STEP; Ready, TWO; and Ready, THREE are commanded and executed one more time
to get the flag completely folded lengthwise.
 The flag handlers nearest the NCOIC then fold a 4-inch cuff and begin folding the flag, starting
with the corner on the NCOIC’s left. When folding the flag, the handlers are careful to keep the
edges straight and to not bend the flag.
 After the flag has reached the position of honor (at the head of the right column), the NCOIC
marches by the most direct route to a position directly in front of the flag handler and inspects the
flag. The NCOIC then receives the flag and carries it held against their chest with their forearms,
with the point up.
 After the flag has been folded and received by the NCOIC, they position themselves between the
halyard pullers and face the storage site. The NCOIC then commands Ready, FACE. The
members of the detail make the appropriate Facing movement toward the storage site. The detail
is then marched to the storage site.
Note. Once the flag has been folded (cocked hat), it is treated as a cased Color and not saluted by
persons meeting the flag detail. The flag will be treated with the utmost dignity and respect but
not be rendered any sort of honors.

May

TC 3-21.5

I-3

Appendix I

Figure I-2. Correct method of folding U.S. flag

DISPLAY
I-6. The flag of the United States represents the living country and is considered a living thing. Rules and
customs for displaying the U.S. flag, adopted by an act of Congress in 1942 and amended in 1976, are found
in Title 36 of the U.S. Code.
Note. No other flag or pennant should be placed above or, if on the same level, to the right of the
flag of the United States of America, except during church services conducted by naval chaplains
at sea, when the church pennant may be flown above the flag and except as required by
multinational agreements to which the United States is a signatory.

I-4

TC 3-21.5

May

Flags and Colors

I-7. The union, the field of blue with the grouping of stars representing the individual states, is the honor
point and is the flag’s right. When the flag is displayed, the union is always to the top and to the flag’s own
right (the left of the observer). When carried, the flag is always free, never stretched flat or carried
horizontally. In the company of other flags, the U.S. flag is always on the marching right (the flag’s own
right) (see figure I-3), or, if there is a line of other flags, in front of the center of that line. When flags of states
or localities, or pennants of societies, are grouped and displayed from staffs, the U.S. flag is in the center and
at the highest point of the group (see figure I-3). If all flags are displayed from staffs of the same height, the
flag of the United States is placed in the honor position, to the right of the other flags (to the left of the
observer). When flags of two or more nations are displayed, they are flown from separate staffs of the same
height, they are of approximately equal size, and the U.S. flag is to the right of the others.
Note. When the U.S. flag is flown in conjunction with other national flags, care must be taken to
ensure that the foreign national flag is correct and properly displayed.

May

TC 3-21.5

I-5

Appendix I

Figure I-3. National Color displayed with other flags
I-8. The flag of the United States is never used as drapery. It is displayed hung flat against a wall or flown
free from a staff as seen in figure I-4. It is not festooned over doorways or arches, tied in a bow, or fashioned
into a rosette. It is not used to cover a speaker’s desk or draped over the front of a platform. For those
purposes, bunting may be used, giving the blue of the bunting the place of honor at the top of the arrangement
or in the center of the rosette. Traditionally, there is one permissible departure from the rules for display of
the flag of the United States: in a dire emergency, the flag may be flown upside down as a distress signal.

I-6

TC 3-21.5

May

Flags and Colors

Figure I-4. Position of the U.S. Flag

Note. For a detailed explanation of the regulations concerning the flag of the United States and
other flags and Colors, see AR 840-10 and AR 600-25.

May

TC 3-21.5

I-7

Appendix I

CLASSIFICATION
I-9. A flag, as distinguished from a Color, is not saluted except during the ceremonies of raising and
lowering the flag:
 U.S. flags used by the Army are classified by size as follows:
 Garrison flag. The garrison flag is 20 feet hoist by 38 feet fly of nylon wool and is displayed
on holidays and important occasions.
 Post flag. The post flag is 8 feet 11 3/8-inch hoist by 17 feet fly of nylon and is used for general
display and flown daily.
 Field flag. The field flag is 6 feet 8 inches hoist by 12 feet fly of nylon wool and is used for
display with the positional field flag.
 Storm flag. The storm flag is 5 feet hoist by 9 feet 6 inches fly of nylon and is flown during
inclement weather.
 Interment flag. The interment flag is 5 feet hoist by 9 feet 6 inches fly of cotton bunting.
 A Color is the U.S. flag trimmed on three sides with golden yellow fringe 2 1/2 inches wide. The
Color is primarily for indoor display. U.S. Colors used by the Army are classified by size as
follows:
 4 feet, 4 inches hoist by 5 feet, 6 inches fly displayed with the U.S. Army flag, positional
Colors, the Corps of Cadets Colors, 1st Battalion 3rd Infantry Colors, and the chapel flag.
 3 feet hoist by 4 feet fly displayed with the Army field flag, distinguishing flags,
organizational Colors, institutional flags, and the chapel flag.
 Other types of military flags include—
 Colors. These are flags of organizations and certain civilian and military officials.
 Standards. Flags of mounted units were formerly called standards.
 Distinguished flags. These flags identify headquarters, offices, general officers, and
organizations, none of which is authorized organizational or individual Colors.
 Ensign. An ensign is a rectangular flag flown from aircraft, ships, and boats.
 Guidon. A guidon is a swallow-tailed flag carried by companies, batteries, troops, and certain
detachments.
 Pennant. A pennant is a triangular flag used for various utility purposes.
 Dismounted organizations traditionally carried the Color while mounted organizations (Cavalry,
mechanized, and motorized) traditionally carried the standard. Colors were larger than standards.
Under present regulations, both are called Colors.
 The organizational Color is dipped in Salute during the playing of the U.S. national anthem, “To
the Color,” “Taps” (funerals only), and during the ceremony at reveille. It is dipped in Salute when
rendering honors to the organization’s commander or to a person of higher grade, but at no other
time. The U.S. flag is never dipped in Salute.
 Until 1813, the Colors of an Infantry regiment were carried by ensigns, who were the lowest
ranking officers of the regiment. In that year, the regulations were changed and the work was
entrusted to Color sergeants. NCOs carry them today.

ARMY FLAGS
I-10. The U.S. Army flag is 4 feet, 4 inches hoist by 5 feet, 6 inches fly and is trimmed on three sides with
yellow fringe 2 ½ inches in width. On Flag Day, 14 June 1956, the 181st anniversary of the U.S. Army, the
newly adopted U.S. Army flag was publicly unfurled at Independence Hall, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, by
the Honorable Wilbur M. Brucker, Secretary of the Army. The flag, of white silk, bears an embroidered
replica of the official seal of the Department of the Army in ultramarine blue (without the roman numerals).
A scarlet scroll inscribed “United States Army” in white is centered between the device and the ultramarine
blue numerals “1775” denoting the year the Army was founded, by action of the Continental Congress,
14 June 1775. The original War Office seal, constituting the central design of the flag, was authorized by the
Continental Congress on 8 May 1779. The U.S. Army flag bears all the streamers representing the Army’s

I-8

TC 3-21.5

May

Flags and Colors

campaigns since its inception. (When not being carried, the Yorktown streamer should always be prominently
displayed.)
I-11. The Army field flag was authorized in 1962 and is the same as the U.S. Army flag except that it is
3 feet hoist by 4 feet fly, the background is ultramarine blue, the seal is white, the scroll is white, “United
States Army” is scarlet, the numerals “1775” are white, and streamers are not authorized. The flag is issued
to those organizations and headquarters not authorized the U.S. Army flag. (Units authorized issue are
specified in AR 840-10.)

COURTESIES BY INDIVIDUALS
I-12. Table I-1, pages I-9 through I-12, lists courtesies by individuals in various dress and circumstances.
Table I-1. Courtesies by individuals
Courtesies by Individuals
(ADAPTED FROM AR 600-25, APPENDIX B)
1. Military personnel in uniform and in formation (with or without headgear).
Reveille
Retreat
“To the Color”
When Uncased Cannon
when
or national
Colors Pass by Salutes
Played as
or when
Rendered as
anthem
Prelude to
Passing
Honor to a
“To the
Uncased
Person (Note
Color”
Colors
1)
Execute
Execute
Same as for
Colors are
Execute
PRESENT ARMS
PARADE
PRESENT
Passing:
Reveille.
and ORDER
REST at the
ARMS at the
Execute
PRESENT
ARMS at the
command of
command of
ARMS at the
OIC or
OIC or NCOIC.
command of the
command of
Hold salute
officer in charge
NCOIC.
OIC or NCOIC. until command
(OIC) or
ORDER ARMS
Command is
noncommissioned Remain at
PARADE
is given by OIC
given when
officer in charge
REST until
Colors are
or NCOIC.
(NCOIC).
given
within six paces
Attention by
of the flank of
OIC or
the unit, and
NCOIC.
the salute is
held until the
Colors are six
paces past the
flank of the
unit, at which
time the
command
ORDER ARMS
is given.

Military
Funerals

Execute
PRESENT
ARMS at the
command of
OIC or NCOIC
whenever
casket is
moved, and
when “Taps” is
played.

PASSING THE
COLORS:
Execute orders
at the
command of
OIC or NCOIC.
Notes.
1. When the cannon salute to the Union or Nation is fired, no individual action is required.
2. Military photographers covering ceremonies will render appropriate courtesy during the playing of the
national anthem.

May

TC 3-21.5

I-9

Appendix I

Table I-1. Courtesies by individuals (continued)
Courtesies by Individuals
(ADAPTED FROM AR 600-25, APPENDIX B)
2. Military personnel in uniform and not in formation (with or without headgear).
Reveille

Retreat when
Played as
Prelude to “To
the Color”

“To the Color”
or national
anthem

At the first note
of music, face
the flag (or
music if flag is
not in view)
and render the
Hand Salute
on last note of
music.

At the first note
of music, face
flag and stand
at attention (if
flag is not in
view, face
direction of
music).
Remain at
Attention until
last note of “To
The Color.”

At the first note
of music: if
outdoors,
render Hand
Salute; if
indoors, stand
at Attention.
Hold this
position until
the last note of
music has
been played.
(Note 2.)

When
Uncased
Colors Pass by
or when
Passing
Uncased
Colors
COLORS ARE
PASSING:
When Colors
are within six
paces: If
outdoors,
render the
Hand Salute, if
indoors, stand
at Attention.
Hold this
position until
the Colors
have passed
six paces.
PASSING THE
COLORS:
Outdoors:
When within
six paces of
the Colors,
turn head in
the
direction of
Colors and
render “Hand
salute.” Hold
salute until six
paces past the
Colors.

Cannon
Salutes
Rendered as
Honor to a
Person (Note
1)

Military
Funerals

At the first note
of music or first
round of
salute, face the
ceremonial
party and
render the
Hand Salute.
End Salute on
last note of
music or when
last round of
Salute has
been fired.

Each time
casket is
moved, if
outdoors,
stand at
Attention.
When at the
graveside
service all
military
personnel
should stand at
the playing of
“Taps” and
render the
Hand Salute.

Notes.
1. When the cannon salute to the Union or Nation is fired, no individual action is required.
2. Military photographers covering ceremonies will render appropriate courtesy during the playing of the
national anthem.

I-10

TC 3-21.5

May

Flags and Colors

Table I-1. Courtesies by individuals (continued)
Courtesies by Individuals
(ADAPTED FROM AR 600-25, APPENDIX B)
3. All personnel wearing civilian clothes (military and civilian) (includes sports attire with headgear).
Reveille

Retreat when
Played as
Prelude to “To
the Color”

“To the Color”
or national
anthem

When
Uncased
Colors Pass by
or when
Passing
Uncased
Colors

Cannon
Salutes
Rendered as
Honor to a
Person (Note
1)

Military
Funerals

At the first note
of music, face
flag, stand at
Attention,
remove
headgear with
right hand and
hold over left
shoulder with
right hand over
heart (if flag is
not in view,
face direction
of music).

At the first note
of music, face
flag, remove
headgear with
right hand and
stand at
Attention.
Remain at
Attention until
last note of “To
the Color” has
been played (if
flag is not in
view, face
direction of
music).

At the first note
of music: If
outdoors or
indoors stand
at Attention
and hold
headgear over
the left
shoulder with
the right hand
over the heart.
Hold this
position until
the last note of
music has
been played.
(Note 2.)

COLORS ARE
PASSING:
When
Colors are
within six
paces: If
outdoors,
stand at
Attention,
remove
headgear with
right hand and
hold over left
shoulder with
right hand over
heart; if
indoors, stand
at Attention.
Hold this
position until
the Colors
have passed
six paces.
PASSING THE
COLORS:
Outdoors:
When within
six paces of
the Colors,
turn head in
direction of
Colors, remove
headgear with
right hand and
hold over left
shoulder with
right hand over
heart. Hold
position until
six paces past
the Colors.

At the first note
of music or first
round of
salute, face the
ceremonial
party, remove
headgear and
stand at
Attention. Hold
this position
until the last
note of music
or last round of
salute has
been fired.

Each time
casket is
moved:
Outdoors:
stand at
Attention,
remove
headgear with
right hand and
hold over the
left shoulder
with right hand
over heart.
Indoors: Stand.

Notes.
1. When the cannon salute to the Union or Nation is fired, no individual action is required.
2. Military photographers covering ceremonies will render appropriate courtesy during the playing of the
national anthem.

May

TC 3-21.5

I-11

Appendix I

Table I-1. Courtesies by individuals (continued)
Courtesies by Individuals
(ADAPTED FROM AR 600-25, APPENDIX A)
4. Military personnel and civilians in civilian dress without headgear. Personnel engaged in sports and
attired in a sports uniform without headgear.
Reveille

Retreat when
Played as
Prelude to “To
the Color”

“To the Color”
or national
anthem

When
Uncased
Colors Pass by
or when
Passing
Uncased
Colors

Cannon
Salutes
Rendered as
Honor to a
Person (Note
1)

Military
Funerals

At the first note
of music, face
flag, stand at
Attention with
the right hand
over the heart.
Hold this
position until
the last note of
music has
been played (if
flag is not in
view, face
direction of
music).

At the first note
of music, face
flag and stand
at Attention.
Remain at
Attention until
last note of “To
the Color” has
been played (if
flag is not in
view, face
direction of
music).

At the first note
of music: If
outdoors or
indoors, stand
at Attention
with the right
hand over the
heart. Hold this
position until
the last note of
music has
been played.
(Note 2.)

COLORS ARE
PASSING:
When Colors
are within six
paces: If
outdoors,
stand at
Attention with
right hand over
heart; if
indoors, stand
at Attention.
Hold this
position until
the Colors
have passed
six paces.
PASSING THE
COLORS: No
action is
required.

At the first note
of music or first
round of
salute, face the
ceremonial
party and
stand at
Attention. Hold
this position
until the last
note of music
or last round of
salute has
been fired.

Each time
casket is
moved:
Outdoors:
stand at
Attention with
right hand over
heart.
Indoors: Stand
at Attention.

Notes.
1. When the cannon salute to the Union or Nation is fired, no individual action is required.
2. Military photographers covering ceremonies will render appropriate courtesy during the playing of the
national anthem.

I-12

TC 3-21.5

May

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. Where Army and
joint definitions differ, (Army) precedes the definition. Terms for which TC 3-21.5 is
the proponent are marked with an asterisk (*). The proponent publication for other
terms is listed in parentheses after the definition.

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AR

Army regulation

ARNG

Army National Guard

ATP

Army techniques publication

CAC

Casualty Assistance Center

CAO

casualty assistance officer

CD

compact disc

COT

commanding officer of troops

CSM

command sergeant major

DA

Department of the Army

DOD

Department of Defense

FM

field manual

MCTP

Marine Corps tactical publication

NCO

noncommissioned officer

NCOIC

noncommissioned officer in charge

NOK

next of kin

OIC

officer in charge

PADD

person authorized to direct disposition of human remains

PICAA

preparatory command, intermediate step, command of execution, additional
step, and action step

POC

point of contact
RC

Reserve Component

RSC

regional support command

SOP

standard operating procedure

STARC

state area command

U.S.

United States

TC

training circular

USAR

United States Army Reserve

May

TC 3-21.5

Glossary-1

Glossary

SECTION II – TERMS
*alignment
The arrangement of several elements on the same line.
*cadence
The uniform rhythm in which a movement is executed, or the number of steps or counts per minute at
which a movement is executed. Drill movements are normally executed at the cadence or quick time or
double-time. Quick time is the cadence or 120 counts or steps per minute; double-time is the cadence
of 180 counts or steps per minute.
*ceremonies
Formations and movements in which a number of troops execute movements in unison and with
precision just as in drill; however, their primary value is to render honors, preserve traditions, and
stimulate esprit de corps.
*cordon
A line of Soldiers to honor a dignitary upon entering or exiting from a given place or vehicle.
*directive
An oral order given by a commander to direct or cause a subordinate leader or lead element to take
action.
*distance
The space between elements when the elements are one behind the other. Between units, it varies with
the size of the formation; between individuals, it is an arm’s length to the front plus 6 inches, or about
36 inches, measured from the chest of one Soldier to the back of the Soldier immediately to their front.
*drill
Certain movements by which a unit (or individuals) is moved in a uniform manner from one formation
to another or from one place to another. Movements are executed in unison and with precision.
*file
A column that has a front of one element.
*formation
The arrangement of elements of a unit in a prescribed manner.
*front
The space from side to side of a formation, including the right and left elements.
*interval
–double
The lateral space between Soldiers, measured from right to left by raising both arms shoulder high with
the fingers extended and joined (palms down) so that fingertips are touching the fingertips of the
Soldiers to the right and to the left.
–normal
The lateral space between Soldiers, measured from right to left by the Soldier on the right holding their
left arm shoulder high, fingers and thumb extended and joined with the tip of their middle finger
touching the right shoulder of the Soldier to their left.
*PICAA
Five-step process used in all marching movement: P-preparatory command, I intermediate step, Ccommand of execution, A-action step, and A-additional step.
*rank
A line that is one element in-depth.
*re-form
A command to restore the previous element or formation (used only during drill instructions).

Glossary-2

TC 3-21.5

May

References
URLs accessed on 23 March 2021.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. January 2021. Available at
https://www.jcs.mil/Doctrine/.
FM 1-02.1. Operational Terms. 9 March 2021.
FM 1-02.2. Military Symbols. 10 November 2020.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
These documents contain relevant supplemental information.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications and regulations are available at https://armypubs.army.mil.
AR 220-90. Army Bands. 9 November 2016.
AR 600-8-22. Military Awards. 5 March 2019.
AR 600-25. Salutes, Honors, and Courtesy. 10 September 2019.
AR 670-1. Wear and Appearance of Army Uniforms and Insignia. 26 January 2021.
AR 840-10. Flags, Guidons, Streamers, Tabards, and Automobile and Aircraft Plates. 17 July 2020.
ATP 1-05.02. Religious Support to Funerals and Memorial Events. 27 November 2018.
DA Pam 638-2. Procedures for the Army Mortuary Affairs Program. 23 June 2015.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C. The Commander’s Handbook on the Law of Land Warfare. 7 August 2019.
TC 1-19.10. Army Ceremonial Music Performance. 15 April 2017.

UNITED STATES LAW
Section 301, Title 36, United States Code. Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and
Organizations. Available online at the Office of the Law Revision Counsel, United States
Code website: http://uscode.house.gov.

WEBSITES
U.S. Army Bands: https://www.bands.army.mil.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website at
https://armypubs.army.mil/.
DA Form 2028, Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

May

TC 3-21.5

References-1

This page intentionally left blank.

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.

3
30-inch step. 4-18

A
align the squad at Normal
Interval. 6-16
attention to orders. G-6

B
bugle calls. 1-14
by the numbers. 2-12
by-the-numbers. 2-2

C
case and uncase Colors. 15-20
ceremonial firing. 14-40
change interval while in line.
6-10
change step. 4-19
change-of-command
ceremony, sequence of
events. G-4
change-of-responsibility
ceremony,. G-5
circular formation. 2-23
Color guard configurations.
15-27
conducting command retreat,
sequence of events. 13-4
conducting command reveille,
sequence of events. 13-8
conducting retreat, sequence
of events. 13-2
conducting reveille, sequence
of events. 13-6
count cadence. 2-25
courtesies by individuals. I-12

D
demonstration stage. 2-6
directives. 3-12
displaying the flag, rules and
customs. I-6

May

E
explanation stage. 2-4
extended rectangular
formation. 2-22
Eyes Right. 7-36

F
five facing movements. 4-7
fix or unfix bayonets. 5-13
folding the flag. I-5
form a column of twos and
re-form. 6-26
four formation types. 2-16

G
guidon positions. F-1

H
Hand Salute. 4-10
honor cordon. 12-3

I
individual Soldier, marching
steps. 4-16
in-quarters inspection. 7-79
in-ranks inspections. 7-59

L
line and column, two
prescribed formations. 7-1
line formation. 2-21
lowering the flag. I-4

M
march in place. 4-23
march to the rear. 4-20, 6-24
marched to the flank. 6-25
military ceremonies, three
general categories. 17-2
military funerals
two classes. 14-18

O
other types of military flags. I-9

TC 3-21.5

P
PICAA effect. 2-7
platoon counter-column. 7-44
position of attention. 4-3
positions of rest. 4-6
posting Colors. 15-24
preparatory command and the
command of execution. 3-3
preparatory commands. 3-3

R
raising the flag. I-3
retiring Colors. 15-24

S
Salute at Sling Arms. 5-23
salute battery. 16-1
squad dismissal. 6-27
Stack and Take Arms. 6-29
standardized DOD language,
flag presentation. 14-16
step-by-step. 2-2
step-by-step method of
instruction. 2-7
street parades. 11-22

T
talk-through. 2-2
talk-through method of
instruction. 2-11
teaching stages. 2-3
three teaching stages. 2-3
types of ceremonies. G-2
types of military funeral honors
full military honors. 14-20
special full honor teams.
14-23
veterans honors. 14-22

U
U.S. flags used by the Army.
I-9
U-formation. 2-17

Index-1

This page intentionally left blank.

May 20

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

JAMES C. MCCONVILLE
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

KATHLEEN S. MILLER

Administrative Assistant
Secretary of the Army

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve:
electronic media only (EMO).

istributed in

PIN:

-

