TC 3-22.9

Rifle and Carbine

MAY 2016
Distribution Restriction:
distribution is unlimited.

Approved

for

public

release;

*This publication supersedes FM 3-22.9, 12 August 2008.

Headquarters, Department of the Army

Preface
Training Circular (TC) 3-22.9 provides Soldiers with the critical information for their rifle
or carbine and how it functions, its capabilities, the capabilities of the optics and ammunition,
and the application of the functional elements of the shot process.
TC 3-22.9 uses joint terms where applicable. Selected joint and Army terms and definitions
appear in both the glossary and the text. Terms for which TC 3-22.9 is the proponent
publication (the authority) are italicized in the text and are marked with an asterisk (*) in the
glossary. Terms and definitions for which TC 3-22.9 is the proponent publication are
boldfaced in the text. For other definitions shown in the text, the term is italicized and the
number of the proponent publication follows the definition.
The principal audience for TC 3-22.9 is all members of the profession of arms. Commanders
and staffs of Army headquarters serving as joint task force or multinational headquarters
should also refer to applicable joint or multinational doctrine concerning the range of military
operations and joint or multinational forces. Trainers and educators throughout the Army
will also use this publication.
Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure that their decisions and actions comply with
applicable United States, international, and in some cases host-nation laws and regulations.
Commanders at all levels ensure that their Soldiers operate in accordance with the law of
war and the rules of engagement. (See FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C.)
This publication applies to the active Army, the Army National Guard (ARNG)/Army
National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS), and the United States Army Reserve
(USAR). Unless otherwise stated in this publication, masculine nouns and pronouns do not
refer exclusively to men.
Uniforms depicted in this manual were drawn without camouflage for clarity of the
illustration.
The proponent of this publication is United States (U.S.) Army Maneuver Center of
Excellence (MCoE). The preparing agency is the MCoE, Fort Benning, Georgia. You may
submit comments and recommended changes in any of several ways—U.S. mail, e-mail, fax,
or telephone—as long as you use or follow the format of DA Form 2028, (Recommended
Changes to Publications and Blank Forms). Contact information is as follows:
E-mail:
usarmy.benning.mcoe.mbx.doctrine@mail.mil
Phone:
COM 706-545-7114 or DSN 835-7114
Fax:
COM 706-545-8511 or DSN 835-8511
U.S. mail: Commander, MCoE
Directorate of Training and Doctrine (DOTD)
Doctrine and Collective Training Division
ATTN: ATZB-TDD
Fort Benning, GA 31905-5410
TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Introduction
This manual is comprised of nine chapters and five appendices, and is specifically tailored
to the individual Soldier’s use of the M4- or M16-series weapon. This TC provides specific
information about the weapon, aiming devices, attachments, followed by sequential chapters
on the tactical employment of the weapon system.
The training circular itself is purposely organized in a progressive manner, each chapter or
appendix building on the information from the previous section. This organization provides
a logical sequence of information which directly supports the Army’s training strategy for
the weapon at the individual level.
Chapters 1 through 4 describe the weapon, aiming devices, mountable weapons, and
accessories associated with the rifle and carbine. General information is provided in the
chapters of the manual, with more advanced information placed in appendix A, Ammunition,
and appendix B, Ballistics.
Chapters 5 through 9 provide the employment, stability, aiming, control and movement
information. This portion focuses on the Solider skills needed to produce well aimed shots.
Advanced engagement concepts are provided in appendix C of this publication. Appendix D
of this publication provides common tactical drills that are used in training and combat that
directly support tactical engagements. Finally, appendix E of this publication, is provided at
a common location in this and future weapons publications to provide a common location
for reference.
This manual does not cover the specific rifle or carbine training strategy, ammunition
requirements for the training strategy, or range operations. These areas will be covered in
separate training circulars.
Conclusion
TC 3-22.9 applies to all Soldiers, regardless of experience or position. This publication is
designed specifically for the Soldier’s use on the range during training, and as a reference
while deployed.

20 November 2019

TC 3-22.9

3

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 1

Overview
This TC is designed to provide Soldiers the critical information on
their rifle or carbine to properly and effectively engage and destroy
threats in a direct fire engagement. It relies on the Soldier’s
understanding of the weapon, how it functions, its capabilities, the
capabilities of the optics and ammunition, and how to properly
employ those capabilities to achieve mastery through the
application of the functional elements of the shot process.
This chapter describes the principles of proper weapons handling,
tactical applications and control measures for handling the
weapons, and an overview of the concepts of overmatch as it
pertains to a Soldier’s individual weapon.
1-1. Each Soldier is responsible for placing accurate and effective fires on threat
targets with their individual weapon. This manual defines the functional elements of the
shot process, the principles of operation of the weapon, the characteristics and
description of ballistics and ammunition, and the various engagement techniques that
are essential to build Soldier proficiency with their weapon. It includes standard drills
and techniques that assist the Soldier to build, improve, and sustain their skills to achieve
accurate and precise shots consistently during combat operations (see figure 1-1).

Figure 1-1. Employment skills
20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

1-1

Chapter 1

SAFE WEAPONS HANDLING
1-2. Safe weapons handling procedures are a consistent and standardized way for
Soldiers to handle, operate, and employ the weapon safely and effectively. Weapons
handling is built on three components; the Soldier, the weapon, and the environment:
 The Soldier must maintain situational understanding of friendly forces, the
status of the weapon, and the ability to evaluate the environment to properly
handle any weapon. The smart, adaptive, and disciplined Soldier is the
primary safety mechanism for all weapons under his control.
 The weapon is the primary tool of the Soldier to defeat threats in combat.
The Soldier must know of and how to operate the mechanical safeties built
into the weapons they employ, as well as the principles of operation for those
weapons.
 The environment is the Soldier’s surroundings. The Soldier must be aware
of muzzle discipline, the nature of the target, and what is behind it.
1-3. To safely and effectively handle weapons, Soldiers must be cognitively aware of
three distinct weapons handling measures:
 The rules of firearms safety.
 Weapons safety status.
 Weapons control status.
1-4. These measures directly support the components of safe weapons handling. They
are designed to provide redundant safety measures when handling any weapon or
weapon system, not just rifles and carbines.
1-5. This redundancy allows for multiple fail-safe measures to provide the maximum
level of safety in both training and operational environments. A Soldier would have to
violate two of the rules of firearms safety or violate a weapon safety status in order to
have a negligent discharge.
Note. Unit standard operating procedures (SOPs), range SOPs, or the
operational environment may dictate additional safety protocols; however,
the rules of firearms safety are always applied. If a unit requires Soldiers to
violate these safety rules for any reason, such as for the use of blank rounds
or other similar training munitions during training, the unit commander must
take appropriate risk mitigation actions.

RULES OF FIREARMS SAFETY
1-6. The Rules of Firearms Safety are standardized for any weapon a Soldier may
employ. Soldiers must adhere to these precepts during training and combat operations,
regardless of the type of ammunition employed, except as noted above.

1-2

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 2019

Overview

Rule 1: Treat Every Weapon as if it is Loaded
1-7. Any weapon handled by a Soldier must be treated as if it is loaded and prepared
to fire. Whether or not a weapon is loaded should not affect how a Soldier handles the
weapon in any instance.
1-8. Soldiers must take the appropriate actions to ensure the proper weapon status is
applied during operations, whether in combat or training.

Rule 2: Never Point the Weapon at Anything You Do Not Intend to Destroy
1-9. Soldiers must be aware of the orientation of their weapon’s muzzle and what is
in the path of the projectile if the weapon fires. Soldiers must ensure the path between
the muzzle and target is clear of friendly forces, noncombatants, or anything the Soldier
does not want to strike.
1-10. When this is unavoidable, the Soldier must minimize the amount of time the
muzzle is oriented toward people or objects they do not intend to shoot, while
simultaneously applying the other three rules of fire arms safety.

Rule 3: Keep Finger Straight and Off the Trigger Until Ready to Fire
1-11. Soldiers must not place their finger on the trigger unless they intend to fire the
weapon. The Soldier is the most important safety feature on any weapon. Mechanical
safety devices are not available on all types of weapons. When mechanical safeties are
present, Soldiers must not solely rely upon them for safe operation knowing that
mechanical measures may fail.
1-12. Whenever possible, Soldiers should move the weapon to mechanical safe when a
target is not present. If the weapon does not have a traditional mechanical safe, the
trigger finger acts as the primary safety.

Rule 4: Ensure Positive Identification of the Target and its Surroundings
1-13. The disciplined Soldier can positively identify the target and knows what is in
front of and what is beyond it. The Soldier is responsible for all bullets fired from their
weapon, including the projectile’s final destination.
1-14. Application of this rule minimizes the possibility of fratricide, collateral damage,
or damage to infrastructure or equipment. It also prepares the Soldier for any follow-on
shots that may be required.

20 November 2019

TC 3-22.9

3

1-3

Chapter 1

WEAPON SAFETY STATUS
1-15. The readiness of a Soldier’s weapon is termed as its weapon safety status (WSS).
It is a standard code that uses common colors (green, amber, red, and black) to represent
the level of readiness for a given weapon.
1-16. Each color represents a specific series of actions that are applied to a weapon.
They are used in training and combat to place or maintain a level of safety relevant to
the current task or action of a Soldier, small unit, or group.
1-17. The WSS ratings are evaluated by the level of safety measures applied to the
weapon itself. Table 1-1 describes the general safe condition of the weapon for each
WSS, based on the standard color scheme found in ADP 1-02.
Note. If the component, assembly, or part described is unclear, refer to the
weapon’s technical manual (TM) or chapter 2 of this publication.
Table 1-1. General safe condition of the weapon for each weapon safety
status

1-18. All firers and leaders must be fluent in the general meaning of each WSS, how it
pertains to the weapon being employed, and the responsibilities of the firer to own each
shot or burst. The following are the basic definitions for each WSS:
 Green, “Fully Safe” – the weapon is clear, no ammunition is present the
chamber is empty, and the fire selector switch is set to SAFE.
 Amber, “Substantially Safe” – a leader must clear and verify that the
weapon’s bolt is forward, the chamber is empty, and ammunition is
introduced to the weapon. This is an administrative or preparatory WSS.
Leaders use amber primarily for mounted operations and during combat
operations when directed to maintain a substantially safe weapon with the
ability to rapidly transition and escalate to red or black, based on the situation.
Note. WSS amber is not used in the live-fire events described in this
publication.
1-4

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Overview




Red, “Marginally Safe” – the fire selector switch is set to SAFE, the magazine
is locked in the magazine well, a round is in the chamber, and the bolt is
locked in the forward position.
Black, “Not Safe” – Indicates when the weapon is fully prepared to fire, the
firer has positively identified the target, the fire selector switch is set to FIRE,
and the firer’s finger is on the trigger, and the fire is in the process of engaging
the target.

Note. WSS black is used to describe the actions of the firer when in a red
status and entering an engagement sequence. WSS black describes the
distinct difference between red and actively and deliberately engaging a
threat.
1-19. Figures 1-2 through 1-5 on pages 1-6 through 1-9 describe the standard color code
for the M4-series/M16-series rifle and carbine. The Soldier performs actions described
in figures 1-2 through 1-5 to move from one color code to the next.

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

1-5

Chapter 1

Figure 1-2. M4-/M16-series weapons, green weapon safety status

1-6

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Overview

Figure 1-3. M4-/M16-series weapons, amber weapon safety status

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

1-7

Chapter 1

Figure 1-4. M4-/M16-series weapons, red weapon safety status

1-8

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Overview

Figure 1-5. M4-/M16-series weapons, black weapons safety status

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

1-9

Chapter 1

WEAPONS CONTROL STATUS
1-20. A weapons control status (WCS) is a tactical method of fire control given by a
leader that incorporates the tactical situation, rules of engagement for the area of
operations, and expected or anticipated enemy contact. The WCS outlines the target
identification conditions under which friendly elements may engage a perceived threat
with direct fire.
1-21. Table 1-2 provides a description of the standard WCS used during tactical
operations, both in training and combat. They describe when the firer is authorized to
engage a threat target once the threat conditions have been met.
Table 1-2. Weapons Control Status
WEAPONS
CONTROL STATUS

DESCRIPTION

WEAPONS HOLD

Engage only if engaged or ordered to engage.

WEAPONS TIGHT

Engage only if target is positively identified as enemy.

WEAPONS FREE

Engage targets not positively identified as friendly.

1-22. A weapon control status and a weapons safety status are both implemented and
available to leaders to prevent fratricide and limit collateral damage. These postures or
statuses are typically suited to the area of operation or type of mission and should always
be clearly outlined to all Soldiers, typically in the operations order (OPORD), warning
order (WARNORD), or fragmentary order (FRAGORD).

OVERMATCH
1-23. Overmatch is the Soldier applying their learned skills, employing their
equipment, leveraging technology, and applying the proper force to create an unfair fight
in favor of the Soldier. To achieve and maintain overmatch against any threat, this
publication focuses on providing information that develops the Soldier’s direct fire
engagement skills using the following attributes:
 Smart – the ability to routinely generate understanding through changing
conditions.
 Fast – the ability to physically and cognitively outmaneuver adversaries.
 Lethal – deadly in the application of force.
 Precise – consistently accurate in the application of power to ensure deliver
of the right effects in time, space, and purpose.
1-24. This requires the Soldier to understand the key elements that build the unfair
advantage and exploit them at every opportunity during tactical operations. The
components of overmatch are:

1-10

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Overview












Target detection, acquisition, and identification – the ability of the Soldier
to detect and positively identify any suspected target as hostile at greater
distances than their adversary. This relies upon Soldier training and their
ability to leverage the capabilities of their optics, thermals, and sensors.
Engagement range – provide the Soldier with weapons, aiming devices, and
ammunition capable of striking and defeating a threat at a greater range than
the adversary can detect or engage the friendly force with effective fires.
Limited visibility – provide the Soldier to make operations during limited
visibility an advantage through technology and techniques, and compound
their adversary’s disadvantages during those conditions.
Precision – provide a weapon and ammunition package that enhances the
Soldier’s consistent application of shots with a level of precision greater than
the adversary’s.
Speed – the weapon, aiming devices, and accessories a Soldier employs must
seamlessly work in unison, be intuitive to use, and leverage natural motion
and manipulations to facilitate rapid initial and subsequent shots during an
engagement at close quarters, mid-, and extended ranges.
Terminal performance – ensures that precise shots delivered at extended
ranges provide the highest probability to defeat the threat through
exceptional ballistic performance.

1-25. Although not a component of overmatch, exceptional training is critical to create
smart, fast, lethal, and precise Soldiers. Training builds proficiency in a progressive,
logical, and structured manner and provides Soldiers the skills necessary to achieve
overmatch against any adversary. This requires the training program to provide
experience to the Soldier in all the components of overmatch to their fullest extent
possible in the shortest amount of time.

TARGET DETECTION, ACQUISITION, AND IDENTIFICATION
1-26. The first component of overmatch at the Soldier level is the ability to detect
targets as far away as possible during limited and low visibility conditions. This manual
describes the aiming devices for the service rifle that enhance the Soldier’s target
detection and acquisition skills. The Soldier must be able to detect, acquire, and identify
targets at ranges beyond the maximum effective range of their weapon and ammunition.
1-27. This publication also provides key recognition information to build the Soldier’s
skills in correctly identifying potential targets as friend, foe, or noncombatant (neutral)
once detected.

ENGAGEMENT RANGE
1-28. To ensure small unit success, the Soldier requires weapon systems that can
effectively engage threats at ranges greater than those of their adversaries. This creates
a standoff distance advantage that allows friendly forces to destroy the target outside the
threat’s maximum effective range.

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

1-11

Chapter 1

1-29. Range overmatch provides a tactical engagement buffer that accommodates the
Soldier’s time to engage with precision fires. For example, a Soldier that has the
capability to effectively engage personnel targets at a range of 500 meters will have
range overmatch of 10 to 20 percent over a threat rifleman. That 10 to 20 percent range
difference is equivalent to a distance of 40 to 80 meters, which is approximately the
distance a maneuvering threat can traverse in 15 to 40 seconds.
1-30. Figure 1-6 portrays the battlefield from the Soldier’s perspective. With mobile,
maneuvering threats, the target acquisition capabilities must compliment the
engagement of those threats at the maximum effective range of the weapon, optic, and
ammunition.

Figure 1-6. Small unit range overmatch

LIMITED VISIBILITY
1-31. Soldiers must be able to detect, acquire, identify, and engage threats in all light
conditions, regardless of the tactical situation. To provide that capability, aiming devices
are provided that minimize the effects of limited visibility, but not completely.
1-32. Image intensifiers and thermal optics provide a significant overmatch capability,
but they also have limitations and disadvantages. A general discussion of their
capabilities, particularly what those systems can view within the spectrum of light is
provided. Soldiers must understand what can be “seen” or viewed and what cannot when
using their assigned equipment. Understanding the advantages and limitations of their
equipment has a direct impact on force protection, fratricide and collateral damage
prevention, and maintaining overmatch during tactical operations.

PRECISION
1-33. The Army standard service rifle is designed with a specific level of accuracy out
to its maximum effective range. This level of accuracy is more consistent and reliable
1-12

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Overview

through the use of magnified aiming devices and superior ammunition. The Soldier must
build the skills to use them effectively to deliver precision fires during tactical
engagements.

SPEED
1-34. The close fight requires rapid manipulations, a balance of speed and accuracy,
and very little environmental concerns. Soldiers must move quickly and efficiently
through their manipulations of the fire control to maintain the maximum amount of
muzzle orientation on the threat through the shot process. This second-nature efficiency
of movement only comes from regular practice, drills, and repetition.
1-35. The foundation of speed of action is built through understanding the weapon,
ammunition, ballistics, and principles of operation of the associated aiming devices. It
is reinforced during drills (appendix D), and the training program of the unit.
1-36. The goal of training to overmatch is to increase the speed at which the Soldier
detects a threat, identifies it as hostile, and executes the shot process with the desired
target effect. This manual is constructed to provide the requisite information in a
progressive manner to build and reinforce Soldier understanding, confidence, and ability
to execute tactical operations with speed and smooth fluidity of motion.

TERMINAL BALLISTIC PERFORMANCE
1-37. Terminal ballistic performance is the actions of a projectile from the time it strikes
an object downrange until it comes to rest. The ammunition used with the service rifle
performs exceptionally well out to its maximum effective range and beyond. This
manual provides information on the various munition types available for training and
combat, their capabilities and purpose, and the service (combat) round’s terminal
ballistic performance (see appendix A, Ammunition, and appendix B, Ballistics).
1-38. Soldiers must understand the capabilities of their ammunition, whether designed
for training or combat use. That understanding creates a respect for the weapon and
ammunition, reinforces the precepts of safe weapons handling, and an understanding of
the appropriate skills necessary to deliver lethal fires.
1-39. Soldiers that understand the “how” and “why” of their weapon system, aiming
devices, ammunition, and procedures work or function develops a more comprehensive
understanding. That level of understanding, coupled with a rigorous training program
that builds and strengthens their skills create more proficient Soldiers. The proficiencies
and skills displayed during training translate into smart, fast, lethal and precise Soldiers
for the small unit during decisive action combat operations.

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9

3

1-13

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 2

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation
This chapter provides the general characteristics, description,
available components, and principles of operation for the M4- and
M16-series weapons. It provides a general overview of the
mechanics and theory of how weapons operate, key terms and
definitions related to their functioning, and the physical relationship
between the Soldier, the weapon, and the optics/equipment attached
to the weapon.

ARMY STANDARD SERVICE RIFLE
2-1. The Army standard service rifle is either the M16-series rifle or M4-series
carbine. These weapons are described as a lightweight, 5.56-mm, magazine-fed, gasoperated, air-cooled, shoulder-fired rifle or carbine. They fire in semiautomatic (singleshot), three-round burst, or in automatic mode using a selector lever, depending on the
variant. The weapon system has a standardized mounting surface for various optics,
pointers, illuminators, and equipment, to secure those items with common mounting and
adjustment hardware.
2-2. Each service rifle weapon system consists of components, assemblies,
subassemblies, and individual parts. Soldiers must be familiar with these items and how
they interact during operation.
 Components are uniquely identifiable group of fitted parts, pieces,
assemblies or subassemblies that are required and necessary to perform a
distinctive function in the operation of the weapon. Components are usually
removable in one piece and are considered indivisible for a particular
purpose or use.
 Assemblies are a group of subassemblies and parts that are fitted to perform
specific set of functions during operation, and cannot be used independently
for any other purpose.
 Subassemblies are a group of parts that are fitted to perform a specific set of
functions during operation. Subassemblies are compartmentalized to
complete a single specific task. They may be grouped with other assemblies,
subassemblies and parts to create a component.
 Parts are the individual items that perform a function when attached to a
subassembly, assembly, or component that serves a specific purpose.
2-3. Each weapon consists of two major components: the upper receiver and the lower
receiver. These components are described below including their associated assemblies,
subassemblies, and parts.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-1

Chapter 2

UPPER RECEIVER
2-4. An aluminum receiver helps reduce the overall weight of the rifle/carbine and
allows for mounting of equipment and accessories. The upper receiver consists of the
following (see figure 2-1):
 Barrel assembly.

Barrel. The bore and chamber of the barrel are chrome-plated to reduce
wear and fouling over the life of the weapon.

Flash hider or compensator. Located at the end of the barrel, is
provided to reduce the signature of the weapon during firing and reduce
barrel movement off target during firing.

Sling swivel. The attachment hardware for the sling system used to
properly carry the weapon.

Front sight assembly. Includes an adjustable front sight post that
facilitates zeroing the weapon, serves as the forward portion of the iron
sight or back up iron sight, and assists with range determination.

Adapter rail system (ARS). Provided in varying lengths, depending on
the variant applied. Used to attach common aiming devices or
accessories.

Slip ring. Provides a spring loaded locking mechanism for the weapon’s
hand guards.

Ejection port. Provides an opening in the upper receiver to allow
ammunition or spent casing ejection from the weapon.

Ejection port cover. Provides a dust cover for the ejection port,
protecting the upper receiver and bolt assembly from foreign objects.

Forward assist assembly. Provides a Soldier applied mechanical assist
to the bolt assembly during operations.

Figure 2-1. Upper receiver

2-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation

LOWER RECEIVER
2-5. The lower receiver shown in figure 2-2, on page 2-3, consists of the following
components, assemblies, and parts:
 Trigger assembly. Provides the trigger, pins, springs, and other mechanical
components necessary to fire the weapon.
 Bolt catch. A mechanical lever that can be applied to lock the bolt to the rear
by the Soldier, or automatically during the cycle of function when the
magazine is empty (see page 2-4).
 Rifle grip. An ambidextrous pistol-type handle that assists in recoil
absorption during firing.
 Magazine catch assembly. Provides a simple, spring-loaded locking
mechanism to secure the magazine within the magazine well. Provides the
operator an easy to manipulate, push-to-release textured button to release the
magazine from the magazine well during operation.
 Buttstock assembly. Contains the components necessary for proper
shoulder placement of the weapon during all firing positions, returning the
bolt assembly to battery, and managing the forces of recoil during operation.

The M4-/M4A1-series carbine has a four position collapsible buttstock
assembly: Closed, ½ open, ¾ open, and fully-open.

M16-series rifles have a fixed buttstock with cleaning kit compartment
or an applied modified work order (MWO) collapsible buttstock.
 Action spring. Provides the stored energy to return the bolt carrier assembly
back into battery during operation.
 Lower receiver extension. Provides space for the action spring and buffer
assembly during operation.

Figure 2-2. Lower receiver
2-6. Additional information on the characteristics and components of the M4-/M4A1/M16-series weapons can be found in technical manual (TM) 9-1005-319-10. Soldiers
will use the technical manual for preventative maintenance checks and services (PMCS),
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-3

Chapter 2

and operation under normal conditions, as well as more detailed information on the
principles of operation.
2-7. Each variant of the rifle and carbine have subtle capabilities differences. The
primary differences are shown in table 2-1, and are specific to the weapon’s selector
switch, buttstock, and barrel length.
Table 2-1. Model Version Firing Methods Comparison
Weapon

Selector Switch Position

Buttstock

M16A2
SAFE
SEMI
BURST
Full
M16A3
SAFE
SEMI
AUTO
Full
M16A4
SAFE
SEMI
BURST
Full
M4
SAFE
SEMI
BURST Collapsible
M4A1
SAFE
SEMI
AUTO Collapsible
Legend:
SEMI: semi-automatic firing selection
AUTO: fully automatic firing selection
BURST: three-round burst firing selection

Barrel
Length
20 inches
20 inches
20 inches
14.5 inches
14.5 inches

CYCLE OF FUNCTION
2-8. The cycle of function is the mechanical process a weapon follows during
operation. The information provided below is specific to the cycle of function as it
pertains specifically to the M4- and M16-series weapons.
2-9. The cycle starts when the rifle is ready with the bolt locked to the rear, the
chamber is clear, and a magazine inserted into the magazine well with at least one
cartridge. From this state, the cycle executes the sequential phases of the cycle of
functioning to fire a round and prepare the weapon for the next round. The phases of the
cycle of function in order are—
 Feeding.
 Chambering.
 Locking.
 Firing.
 Unlocking.
 Extracting.
 Ejecting.
 Cocking.
2-10. For the weapon to operate correctly, semiautomatic and automatic weapons
require a system of operation to complete the cycle of functioning. The M4- and
M16-series weapons use a direct impingement gas operating system. This system uses
a portion of the high pressure gas from the cartridge being fired to physically move the
assemblies and subassemblies in order to complete the cycle of function.
2-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation

FEEDING
2-11. Feeding is the process of mechanically providing a cartridge of ammunition to the
entrance of the chamber (see figure 2-3).

Figure 2-3. Feeding example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-5

Chapter 2

CHAMBERING
2-12. Chambering is the continuing action of the feeding round into the chamber of the
weapon (see figure 2-4).

Figure 2-4. Chambering example

2-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation

LOCKING
2-13. Locking is the process of creating a mechanical grip between the bolt assembly
and chamber with the appropriate amount of headspace (clearance) for safe firing (see
figure 2-5). With the M4- and M16-series weapons, locking takes place simultaneously
with the final actions of chambering.

Figure 2-5. Locking example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-7

Chapter 2

FIRING
2-14.
Firing is the finite process of initiating the primer detonation of the cartridge and
continues through shot-exit of the projectile from the muzzle (see figure 2-6).

Figure 2-6. Firing example

2-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation

UNLOCKING
2-15. Unlocking is the process of releasing the locking lugs on the bolt face from the
corresponding recesses on the barrel extension surrounding the chamber area (see
figure 2-7).

Figure 2-7. Unlocking example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-9

Chapter 2

EXTRACTING
2-16. Extracting is the removal of the expended cartridge case from the chamber by
means of the extractor (see figure 2-8).

Figure 2-8. Extraction example

2-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation

EJECTING
2-17.
Ejecting is the removal of the spent cartridge case from the weapon itself (see
figure 2-9.)

Figure 2-9. Ejection example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-11

Chapter 2

COCKING
2-18.
Cocking is the process of mechanically positioning the trigger assembly’s parts for
firing (see figure 2-10). The cocking phase completes the full cycle of functioning.

Figure 2-10. Cocking example

2-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Rifle and Carbine Principles of Operation

COOLING
2-19. Cooling is the process of dissipating heat from the weapon during firing.
Although not part of the cycle of functioning, cooling the weapon during firing is critical
to ensure the weapon continues to operate efficiently. Firing a round generates heat and
pressure within the chamber and bore, which radiates outward through the metal of the
barrel.
2-20. The temperature generated by the burning of propellant powders is over one
thousand degrees Fahrenheit. Some of the heat produced during firing is retained in the
chamber, bore, and barrel during firing and poses a significant hazard to the firer.
2-21. How this heat is absorbed by the weapon and dissipated or removed, is a function
of engineering and design. Lightweight weapons like the M4 and M16 do not have
sufficient mass to withstand thermal stress efficiently. The weapon system must have a
means to radiate the heat outward, away from the barrel to allow continuous firing.
2-22. There are three methods to reduce the thermal stress on a weapon. The M4- and
M16-series of weapons use all three of these methods to varying degrees to cool the
chamber, bore, and barrel to facilitate continuous operation. These methods of cooling
are—
 Radiational cooling – allows for the dissipation of heat into the surrounding
cooler air. This is the least efficient means of cooling, but is common to most
small arms weapons, including the rifle and carbine.
 Conduction cooling – occurs when a heated object is in direct physical
contact with a cooler object. Conduction cooling on a weapon usually results
from high chamber operating temperatures being transferred into
surrounding surfaces such as the barrel and receiver of the weapon. The
transfer from the chamber to the cooler metals has the net effect of cooling
the chamber. Thermal energy is then carried away by other means, such as
radiant cooling, from these newly heated surfaces.
 Convection cooling – requires the presence of a moving air current. The
moving air has greater potential to carry away heat. The hand guards and
ARS of the rifle and carbine are designed to facilitate air movement. The
heat shield reflects heat energy away from the hand guard and back towards
the barrel. The net effect is an updraft that brings the cooler air in from the
bottom. This process establishes a convection cycle as heated air is
continually replaced by cooler air.
2-23. Soldiers should be aware of the principles of the weapon’s cooling methods’
direct effects on their line of sight when viewing a target through an aiming device.
Dissipating heat along the length of the barrel can create a mirage effect within the line
of sight which can cause a significant error to the true point of aim when using magnified
optics.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

2-13

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 3

Aiming Devices
Every weapon has a method of aiming, that is either fixed or
attached to operate the weapon effectively. Soldiers must be
familiar with the various aiming devices, how they operate, and how
to employ them correctly to maximize their effectiveness. This
chapter provides the principles of operation of the most widely
available aiming devices, and provides general information
concerning their capabilities, function and use.
3-1. An aiming device is used to align the Soldier, the weapon, and the target to make
an accurate and precise shot. Each aiming device functions in a different manner. To
employ the weapon system to its fullest capability, the Soldier must understand how
their aiming devices function.
3-2.

The following aiming devices are described within this chapter:
 Iron. Iron represent the various types of mechanical sighting systems
available on the weapon. They are available in two distinct types:

Iron sights (rear aperture and front sight post).

Back up iron sights (BUIS).
 Optics. These are optics predominantly for day firing, with limited night
capability. The optics found within this manual come in two types:

Close Combat Optic (CCO).

Rifle Combat Optic (RCO, previously referred to as the Advanced
Combat Optic Gunsight or ACOG).
 Thermal. These are electronic sighting systems that provide a view of the
field of view (FOV) based on temperature variations. There are numerous
variants of thermal optics, but are grouped into one type:
Thermal Weapon Sight (TWS).
 Pointer/Illuminator/Laser. These aiming devices use either a laser beam,
flood light, or other light to aim the weapon at the target. There are three
types of pointers, illuminators, and lasers used by the service rifle:

Advanced Target Pointer Illuminator Aiming Light (ATPIAL).

Dual Beam Aiming Laser–Advanced (DBAL-A2).

Illuminator, Integrated, Small Arms (STORM).

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-1

Chapter 3

UNITS OF ANGULAR MEASUREMENT
3-3. There are two major units of angular measurement the Army uses: mils and
minutes of angle (MOA). These two different units are commonly used terms to describe
a measurement of accuracy when firing a weapon, system, or munition. They typically
include the accuracy of a specific weapon, the performance of ammunition, and the
ability of a shooter as it relates to firing the weapon.

MINUTE OF ANGLE
3-4. A minute of angle (MOA) is an angular unit of measurement equal to 1/60 th of a
degree (see figure 3-1). The most common use of MOA is when describing the distance
of change required when zeroing a weapon.
3-5. One MOA equals 1.047 inches per 100 yards. For most applications, a Soldier
can round this to 1 inch at 100 yards or 1.1 inches at 100 meters to simplify their
arithmetic.

Figure 3-1. Minute of angle example

3-2

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

MILS
3-6. The mil is a common unit of angular measurement that is used in direct fire and
indirect fire applications. (see figure 3-2)

Figure 3-2. Mil example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-3

Chapter 3

3-7. This mil to degree relationship is used when describing military reticles, ballistic
relationships, aiming devices, and on a larger scale, map reading and for indirect fire.

RETICLE
3-8. A reticle is a series of fine lines in the eyepiece of an optic, such as a CCO, TWS,
or RCO (see figure 3-3) used as a measuring scale with included aiming or alignment
points. Reticles use either mils or minute of angle for their unit of measurement.

Figure 3-3. Close combat optic / Rifle combat optic reticle / Thermal reticle
examples

3-4

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

STADIA RETICLE (STADIAMETRIC RETICLE)
3-9. Commonly used in the thermal weapon sight, a stadia reticle provides a means of
rapidly determining the approximate range to target of a viewed threat, based on its
standard dimensions. The stadia reticle (sometimes referred to as “stadiametric” or
“choke sight”) can provide approximate range to target information using width or
height of a viewed dismounted target using standard threat dimensions (see figure 3-4).

Figure 3-4. Stadia reticle example
3-10. There are two stadia reticles found on the rifle / carbine reticle within the thermal
weapons sight; vertical and horizontal.
 Vertical stadia. At the lower left of the sight picture, Soldiers can evaluate
the range to target of a standing dismounted threat.
 Horizontal stadia. In the upper right portion of the sight picture, Soldiers
can evaluate the range to target of an exposed dismounted threat based on the
width of the target.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-5

Chapter 3

ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM
3-11. A major concern for the planning and use of thermal and other optics to aid in the
detection process is understanding how they function, but more appropriately, what they
can “see”. Each device develops a digital representation of the scene or view it is
observing based on what frequencies or wavelengths it can detect within the
electromagnetic spectrum. (Note: Thermal devices see differences in heat.)
 Thermal optics. This equipment operates in the mid- and far-wavelength of
the infrared band, which is the farthest of the infrared wavelengths from
visible light. Thermal optics cannot translate (“see”) visible light. Thermal
optics cannot “see” infrared equipment such as infrared (IR) strobe lights, IR
chemical lights, illuminators, or laser pointers. They can only identify
emitted radiation in the form of heat (see figure 3-5 on page 3-7).
 Image intensifiers (I2). This equipment, such as night vision devices, use
the near area of the infrared spectrum closest to the frequencies of visible
light, as well as visible light to create a digital picture of the scene. These
systems cannot “see” or detect heat or heat sources.
3-12. These sights generally operate on the principles of convection, conduction, and
radiation (mentioned in chapter 2 of this publication). The sight “picks up” or translates
the IR wavelength (or light) that is emitted from a target scene through one of those
three methods.
3-13. Things to be aware of (planning considerations) with these optics are that they
have difficulty imaging through the following:
 Rain – absorbs the IR emitted by the target, makes it difficult to see.
 Water – acts as a mirror and generally reflects IR, providing a false thermal
scene.
 Glass – acts similar to water, interfering with the sensor’s ability to
accurately detect emitted radiation behind the glass.
3-14. Situations where IR can see better are the following:
 Smoke – will not obscure a target unless the chemical obscurant is extremely
hot and dense, or if the target is sitting on top of the smoke source.
 Dust – may interfere with the accurate detection of the emitted thermal
signature due to dust and debris density between the sensor and the target
scene. Dust typically does not obscure the IR signature unless its temperature
is similar to the target's.
3-15. Figure 3-5 depicts the areas of the electromagnetic spectrum. It details the various
wavelengths within the spectrum where the aiming devices, night vision devices, and
equipment operate. It illustrates where these items can and cannot “see” the others,
respectively, within their operating range.

3-6

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-5. Electromagnetic spectrum

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

3-7

Chapter 3

OPTICS
3-16. Optics are sighting aids for rifles and carbines that provide enhanced aim point
reticles, and may include magnified fields of view. Optics are specific to day operations,
although may be used during limited visibility or night operations. They do not have any
method of enhancing low light conditions.
3-17. Optics enhance the Soldier’s ability to engage targets accurately and at extended
ranges (see figure 3-6 on page 3-9). The available optics for mounting on the M4- and
M16-series modular weapon system are:
 Iron Sight.
 Back Up Iron Sight (BUIS).
 CCO, M68.
 RCO, M150.

IRON SIGHT
3-18. Some versions of the M4 and M16 come with a carrying handle with an integrated
rear aperture. The carrying handle may or may not be removable, depending on the
version of the service rifle.
3-19. The integrated rear aperture includes adjustments for both azimuth (wind) and
elevation. Specific instructions for zeroing these aiming devices are found in the
respective weapon’s technical manual.
3-20. The carrying handle has two selectable apertures for the engagement situation:
 Small aperture. Used for zeroing procedures and for mid- and extended-range
engagements.
 Large aperture. Used during limited visibility, close quarters, and for moving
targets at close or mid-range.
3-21. The iron sight uses the fixed front sight post to create the proper aim. Soldiers use
the front sight post centered in the rear aperture. The following information is extracted
from the weapon’s technical manual.

3-8

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-6. Carrying handle with iron sight example
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-9

Chapter 3

BACK UP IRON SIGHT
3-22.
The BUIS is a semi-permanent flip-up sight equipped with a rail-grabbing base.
The BUIS provides a backup capability effective out to 600 meters and can be installed
on M16A4 rifles and M4-series carbines. (See figure 3-7.)
3-23.
The BUIS on the first notch of the integrated rail, nearest to the charging
handle. The BUIS remains on the modular weapon system (MWS) unless the carrying
handle/sight is installed. The following information is extracted from the weapon’s
technical manual.

Figure 3-7. Back up iron sight

3-10

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

CLOSE COMBAT OPTIC, M68
3-24. The close combat optic (CCO), M68 is a non-telescopic (unmagnified) reflex
sight that is designed for the “eyes-open” method of sighting (see figure 3-8). It provides
Soldiers the ability to fire with one or two eyes open, as needed for the engagement
sequence in the shot process.
3-25. The CCO provides a red-dot aiming point using a 2 or 4 MOA diameter reticle,
depending on the variant. The red dot aiming point follows the horizontal and vertical
movement of the firer’s eye, allowing the firer to remain fixed on the target. No centering
or focusing on the front sight post is required. There are three versions of the CCO
available in the force.
Note. Re-tighten the torque-limiting knob after firing the first three to five
rounds to fully seat the M68.
3-26. The CCO is zeroed to the weapon. It must remain matched with the same weapon,
attached at the same slot in the attached rail system or be re-zeroed. If the CCO must be
removed for storage, Soldiers must record the serial number and the rail slot to retain
zero.
Note. The weapon must be re-zeroed if the CCO is not returned to the same
rail slot on the adaptive rail system.

Advantages
3-27. The CCO offers a distinct speed advantage over iron sights in most if not all
engagements. The adjustments on brightness allow the Soldier to have the desired
brightness from full daylight to blackout conditions.
3-28. The CCO is the preferred optic for close quarter’s engagements.

Disadvantages
3-29. The CCO lacks a bullet drop compensator or other means to determine accurate
range to target beyond 200m.
3-30. The following information is an extract from the equipment’s technical manual
for Soldier reference.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-11

Chapter 3

Figure 3-8. CCO Reticle, Comp M2 examples
3-12

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

RIFLE COMBAT OPTIC
3-31. The RCO (see figure 3-9) is designed to provide enhanced target identification
and hit probability for the M4-/M4A1- or M16-series weapon.
3-32. There are several versions of the RCO available for use across the force. Soldiers
must be familiar with their specific version of their assigned RCO, and be
knowledgeable on the specific procedures for alignment and operation (see figure 3-9
for RCO azimuth and elevation adjustments).
3-33. The reticle pattern provides quick target acquisition at close combat ranges to 800
meters using the bullet drop compensator (BDC) (see figure 3-10 on page 3-15). It is
designed with dual illuminated technology, using fiber optics for daytime employment
and tritium for nighttime and low-light use.
3-34. The RCO is a lightweight, rugged, fast, and accurate 4x power optic scope
specifically designed to allow the Soldier to keep both eyes open while engaging targets
and maintain maximum situational awareness.

Advantages
3-35. The bullet drop compensator (BDC) is accurate for extended range engagements
using either M855 or M855A1 ball ammunition. The ballistic difference between the
two rounds is negligible under 400 meters and requires no hold determinations.
3-36. This is a widely fielded optic that is rugged, durable, and operates in limited light
conditions. The self-illuminating reticle allows for continuous operations through end
evening nautical twilight (EENT).

Disadvantages
3-37. This optic’s ocular view is limited when engaging targets in close quarters
engagements. This requires additional training to master the close quarter’s skills while
employing the RCO to achieve overmatch against the threat.
3-38. The RCO reticle does not include stadia lines. Windage must be applied by the
shooter from a determined estimate. The RCO has a specific eye relief of 70-mm
(millimeter) or 1.5 inches. If the eye relief is not correct, the image size will be reduced.
3-39. The fiber optic illuminator element can provide excessive light to the reticle
during certain conditions that produce a glare. The RCO does not have a mechanical or
built in method to reduce the effects of the glare created. The increased lighting may
interfere with the shooter’s point of aim and hold determinations. Soldiers may use
alternate methods to reduce the glare by reducing the amount of fiber optic exposed to
direct sunlight during operating conditions.
3-40. The following information is an extract from the equipment’s technical manual
for Soldier reference.

10 January 2017

TC 3-22.9, C1

3-13

Chapter 3

Figure 3-9. RCO reticle example

3-14

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aiming Devices

THERMAL SIGHTS
3-41. Thermal sights are target acquisition and aiming sensors that digitally replicate
the field of view based on an estimation of the temperature. They use advanced forwardlooking infrared technology that identify the infrared emitted radiation (heat) of a field
of view, and translate those temperatures into a gray- or color-scaled image. The TWS
is capable of target acquisition under conditions of limited visibility, such as darkness,
smoke, fog, dust, and haze, and operates effectively during the day and night.
3-42. The TWS is composed of five functional groups: (See figure 3-10.)
 Objective lens – receives IR light emitting from an object and its
surroundings. The objective lens magnifies and projects the IR light.
 Detector assembly – senses the IR light and coverts it to a video signal.
 Sensor assembly – the sensor electronics processes the video for display on
the liquid crystal display (LCD) array in the field of view.
 LCD array/eyepiece – the LCD array provides the IR image along with the
reticle selected. The light from the LCD array is at the eyepiece.
 User controls – the control electronics allows the user to interface with the
device to adjust contrast, thermal gain, sensitivity, reticle display, and
magnification.

Figure 3-10. Thermal weapon sight example
3-43. A small detector used in thermal sensors or optics to identify IR radiation with
wavelengths between 3 and 30 μm (micrometer). The thermal optic calculates and
processes the thermal scene into a correlating video image signal based on the
temperature identified. These optics can differentiate thermal variations of 1 degree
Celsius of the viewable scene. These variations generate a corresponding contrasting
gradient that develops a thermal representation on the LCD screen in the eyepiece.

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

3-15

Chapter 3

AN/PAS-13 SERIES OF WEAPON THERMAL SIGHTS
3-44. There are several versions of weapons thermal sights (WTS) available for use
across the force. Soldiers must be familiar with their specific model and version of their
assigned weapon thermal sight, and be knowledgeable on the specific procedures for
alignment and operation. The various models and versions are identified in their official
model nomenclature:
 Version 1 (v1) – Light Weapons Thermal Sight (LWTS).
 Version 2 (v2) – Medium Weapons Thermal Sight (MWTS).
 Version 3 (v3) – Heavy Weapons Thermal Sight (HWTS).
3-45. Weapons thermal sights are silent, lightweight, and compact, and have durable
battery-powered IR imaging sensors that operate with low battery consumption. (See
figure 3-11.)

Advantages
3-46. Military grade weapon thermal weapon sights are designed with the following
advantages:
 Small and lightweight.
 Real-time imagery. Devices provide real-time video of the thermal scene
immediately after power on.
 Long-lasting battery life. Low power consumption over time.
 Reliable. Long mean time between failures (MTBF).
 Quiet. The lack of a cooling element allows for a very low operating noise
level.
 One optic fits on multiple weapons. The use of the ARS rail mounting bracket
allows for the same optic to be used on other weapons.
 The F- and G-models attach in front of other aiming devices to improve their
capabilities and eliminate the zeroing procedures for the device.

Disadvantages
3-47. These devices have limitations that Soldiers should take into consideration,
particularly during combat operations. The primary disadvantages are:
 Cannot interpret (“see”) multispectral infrared. These systems view a specific
wavelength for emitted radiation (heat variations), and do not allow viewing
of all aiming and marking devices at night.
 Reliance on rechargeable batteries and charging stations. Although the
batteries are common and have a relatively long battery life, additional
equipment is required to charge them. If common nonrechargeable (alkaline)
batteries are used, a separate battery adapter is typically required.
 Cannot interpret thermal signatures behind glass or water effectively.
 Thermal systems cannot always detect friendly marking systems worn by
dismounts.

3-16

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-11. Weapon thermal sights by version
3-48. Thermal sight has a wide field of view and a narrow field of view (see
figures 3-12 and 3-13).

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-17

Chapter 3

Figure 3-12. Thermal weapons sight, narrow field of view reticle example

Figure 3-13. Thermal weapons sight, wide field of view reticle example

3-18

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aiming Devices

POINTERS / ILLUMINATORS / LASERS
3-49. Pointers, illuminators, and laser devices for small arms weapons emit a
collimated beam of IR light for precise aiming and a separate IR beam for illumination.
These devices operate in one single mode at a time, as selected by the user. The laser is
activated by a selector switch on the device or by a remote mechanism installed on the
weapon. The basic two modes or functions are:
 Pointer. When used as a pointer or aiming device, a small, pin-point beam
is emitted from the device. The IR beam provides an infrared visible point
when it strikes an object or target. The IR beam operates in the 400 to 800
nanometer wavelength and can only be seen by I2 optics, such as the
AN-PVS-7 or -14 night vision devices.
 Illuminator. Typically used to illuminate a close quarters area as an infrared
flood light. The illuminator provides a flood-light effect for the Soldier when
used in conjunction with I2 night vision devices.
Note. Laser is an acronym for light amplified stimulated emitted radiation,
but is predominantly used as a proper noun.
3-50. The following devices (see table 3-1) are the most common laser pointing devices
available for use on the M4- and M16-weapons.
Table 3-1. Laser Aiming Devices for the M4 and M16
Laser
Aiming
Device

Device Name

Reference

AN/PEQ-2

Target Pointer/Illuminator/
Aiming Light (TPIAL)

TM 9-5855-1915-13&P

AN/PEQ-15

Advanced Target Pointer/
Illuminator/Aiming Light
(ATPIAL)
Dual Beam Aiming Laser –
Advanced2 (DBAL-A2)
Illuminator, Integrated, Small
Arms (STORM)

TM 9-5855-1914-13&P

AN/PEQ-15A
AN/PSQ-23

TM 9-5855-1912-13&P
TM 9-5855-1913-13&P

Note. The ATPIAL, DBAL-A2, and STORM have collocated IR and visible
aiming lasers. A single set of adjusters move both aiming beams. Although
the aiming lasers are collocated, Soldiers should zero the laser they intend to
use as their primary pointer to ensure accuracy and consistency during
operation.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-19

Chapter 3

AN/PEQ-2 TARGET POINTER/ILLUMINATOR AIMING LIGHT (TPIAL)
3-51. AN/PEQ-2 aiming devices are Class IIIb laser devices that emit a collimated
beam of IR light for precise aiming and a separate IR beam for illumination of the target
or target area (see figure 3-14 on page 3-21). Both beams can be independently zeroed
to the weapon and to each other. The beams can be operated individually or in
combination in both high and low power settings.
Note. The IR illuminator is equipped with an adjustable bezel to vary the size
of the illumination beam based on the size and distance of the target.
3-52. The aiming devices are used with night observation devices (NODs) and can be
used as handheld illuminators/pointers or mounted on the weapon with the included
brackets and accessory mounts. In the weapon-mounted mode, the aiming devices can
be used to direct fire and to illuminate and designate targets.
3-53. The aiming light is activated by pressing on either the ON/OFF switch lever, or
the button on the optional cable switch. Either switch connects power from two AA
batteries to an internal electronic circuit which produces the infrared laser. Internal
lenses focus the infrared light into a narrow beam. The direction of the beam is
controlled by rotating the mechanical Adjusters with click detents. These adjusters are
used to zero the aiming light to the weapon.
3-54. Once zeroed to the weapon, the aiming light projects the beam along the line of
fire of the weapon. The optical baffle prevents off-axis viewing of the aiming light beam
by the enemy.

CAUTION
A safety block is provided for training purposes to
limit the operator from selecting high power modes of
operation.
3-55. The following information is an extract from the equipment’s technical manual
for Soldier reference.

3-20

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-14. AN/PEQ-2

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-21

Chapter 3

AN/PEQ-15 ADVANCED TARGET POINTER/ILLUMINATOR/AIMING LIGHT
3-56. The AN/PEQ-15 ATPIAL is a multifunctional laser that emits both a visible and
IR light for precise weapon aiming and target/area illumination. This ruggedized system
can be used as a handheld illuminator/pointer or can be mounted to weapons equipped
with an M4- or M5-ARS (Military Standard [MIL STD] 1913).
 Visible light – can be used to boresight the device to a weapon without the
need of night vision goggles. A visible red-dot aiming laser can also be
selected to provide precise aiming of a weapon during daylight or night
operations.
 Infrared laser – emit a highly collimated beam of IR light for precise
weapon aiming. A separate IR-illuminating laser can be adjusted from a
flood light mode to a single point spot-divergence mode.
3-57. The lasers can be used as handheld illuminator pointers, or can be weaponmounted with included hardware. The co-aligned visible and IR aiming lasers emit
through laser ports in the front of the housing. These highly capable aiming lasers allow
for accurate nighttime aiming and system boresighting.
3-58. The AN/PEQ-15 has an integrated rail grabber molded into the body to reduce
weight and additional mounting hardware. (Refer to TM 9-5855-1914-13&P for more
information.)

CAUTION
The AN/PEQ-15 can be used during force-on-force
training in the low power modes only. High power
modes can be used on live-fire ranges exceeding
220 meters only.
3-59. The AN/PEQ-15, ATPIAL's (see figure 3-15 on page 3-23) visible aiming laser
provides for active target acquisition in low light conditions and close-quarters combat
situations, and allows users to zero using the borelight without using NOD. When used
in conjunction with NODs, its IR aiming and illumination lasers provide for active,
covert target acquisition in low light or complete darkness.
3-60. The ATPIAL visible and IR aiming lasers are co-aligned. A single set of adjusters
moves both aiming beams, and the user can boresight/zero using either aiming laser.
The following information is an extract from the equipment’s technical manual for
Soldier reference.

3-22

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-15. AN/PEQ-15, ATPIAL
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-23

Chapter 3

AN/PEQ-15A, DUAL BEAM AIMING LASER – ADVANCED2
3-61. The AN/PEQ-15A DBAL-A2 is a multifunctional laser device that emits IR
pointing and illumination light, as well as a visible laser for precise weapon aiming and
target/area illumination. The visible and IR aiming lasers are co-aligned enabling the
visible laser to be used to boresight both aiming lasers to a weapon without the need for
night vision devices. This ruggedized system can be used as a handheld
illuminator/pointer or can be mounted to weapons equipped with an M4 or M5 adapter
rail system (MIL-STD-1913).
 Visible light – can be used to boresight the device to a weapon without the
need of night vision goggles. A visible red-dot aiming laser can also be
selected to provide precise aiming of a weapon during daylight or night
operations.
 Infrared laser – emits a tightly focused beam of IR light for precise aiming
of the weapon. A separate IR illumination provides supplemental IR
illumination of the target or target area. The IR illuminator is equipped with
an adjustable bezel to vary the size of the illumination beam on the size and
distance to the target (flood to point divergence).
3-62. The lasers can be used as hand-held illuminator pointers, or can be weaponmounted with included hardware. These highly capable aiming lasers allow for accurate
nighttime aiming and system boresighting.
3-63. The AN/PEQ-15A, DBAL-A2 (see figure 3-16 on page 3-25) visible aiming laser
provides for active target acquisition in low light conditions and close quarters combat
situations, and allows users to zero using the borelight without using NODs. When used
in conjunction with NODs, its IR aiming and illumination lasers provide for active,
covert target acquisition in low light or complete darkness.
3-64. The DBAL-A2 visible and IR aiming lasers are co-aligned. A single set of
adjusters moves both aiming beams, and the user can boresight/zero using either aiming
laser. The following information is an extract from the equipment’s technical manual
for Soldier reference.

3-24

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-16. AN/PEQ-15A, DBAL-A2

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-25

Chapter 3

AN/PSQ-23, ILLUMINATOR, INTEGRATED, SMALL ARMS
3-65. The AN/PSQ-23 is a battery operated laser range finder (LRF) and digital
magnetic compass (DMC) with integrated multifunctional lasers. The illuminator,
integrated, small arms device is commonly referred to as the STORM laser. The visible
and IR aiming lasers are co-aligned enabling the visible laser to be used to boresight
both aiming lasers to a weapon without the need for night vision devices. This
ruggedized system can be used as a handheld illuminator/pointer or can be mounted to
weapons equipped with an M4 or M5 adapter rail system (MIL-STD-1913).
 Laser range finder – provides range to target information from 20 meters
to 10,000 meters with an accuracy of +/- 1.5 meters.
 Digital magnetic compass – provides azimuth information and limited
elevation information to the operator. The azimuth accuracy is +/- 0.5
degrees to +/- 1.5 degrees. The elevation accuracy is +/- 0.2 degrees. The
DMC can identify bank or slopes up to 45 degrees with an accuracy of +/0.2 degrees.
 Visible light – provides for active target acquisition in low light and close
quarters combat situations without the need for night vision devices. It can
be used to boresight the device to a weapon without the need of night vision
devices. A visible red-dot aiming laser can also be selected to provide precise
aiming of a weapon during daylight or night operations.
 Infrared laser – emits a tightly focused beam of IR light for precise aiming
of the weapon. A separate IR illumination provides supplemental IR
illumination of the target or target area. The IR illuminator is equipped with
an adjustable bezel to vary the size of the illumination beam on the size and
distance to the target (flood to point divergence).
 Infrared illuminator – the STORM features a separately adjustable IR
illuminator with adjustable divergence. It is fixed in the device housing and
is set parallel to the rail mount.
Note. The STORM’s LRF and DMC may be used in combination to obtain
accurate positioning information for targeting purposes and other tactical
applications.
3-66. The integrated visible aim laser (VAL) and illumination lasers provide for active,
covert target acquisition in low light or complete darkness when used in conjunction
with night vision devices. The STORM is also equipped with a tactical engagement
simulation (TES) laser allowing it to be used in a laser-based training environment.
3-67. The AN/PEQ-15A, DBAL-A2 visible aiming laser provides for active target
acquisition in low light conditions and close-quarters combat situations, and allows users
to zero using the borelight without using NODs. When used in conjunction with NODs,
its IR aiming and illumination lasers provide for active, covert target acquisition in low
light or complete darkness. The following information is an extract from the
equipment’s technical manual for Soldier reference (see figure 3-17 on page 3-27).

3-26

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aiming Devices

Figure 3-17. AN/PSQ-23, STORM
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

3-27

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 4

Mountable Equipment
Both the M4- and M16-series of weapons have a wide variety of
attachments to increase Soldier lethality, situational awareness, and
overmatch. The attachments can be applied in various locations on
the weapon system. Soldiers must understand what the attachments
are, how they are correctly positioned, how to align them with the
weapon system, and how to integrate them into use to maximize the
system’s capabilities.
This chapter explains how the ARS is used to mount the various
attachments. It describes the weapons, aiming devices, and
accessories available for mounting, and includes general
information on the proper mounting location as well as their basic
capabilities.

ADAPTIVE RAIL SYSTEM
4-1. The ARS and rail grabbers are designed for M16- and M4-/M4A1-series weapons
to mount:
 Weapons.
 Aiming devices.
 Accessories.
4-2. The ARS provides a secure mounting point for various accessories that may be
mounted on the weapon's top, bottom, left, and right. Each rail groove has an incremental
number identifying the slot location, starting from the rear of the weapon.
4-3. Soldiers should record the attachment or equipment’s serial number (if
applicable), the location of the attachment (for example, markings between lugs), and
any boresight or alignment settings specific to the equipment at that location.
4-4. Once complete, the Soldier should mark the mounting bracket to identify the
tightened position with a permanent marker. Marking the mounting bracket allows for
rapid identification of loosening hardware during firing. Soldiers must periodically
verify the mounting hardware does not loosen during operation. During zeroing or zero
confirmation operations, Soldiers should retighten the mounting hardware after the first
five rounds.
4-5. Soldiers must ensure the equipment is firmly affixed to the ARS before tie down
is complete. If the attachments are loose, their accuracy and effectiveness will be
degraded.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

4-1

Chapter 4

MOUNTABLE WEAPONS
4-6. There are two types of weapons that can be physically attached to the M16-/M4series rifles; grenade launchers and shotguns. These weapons are standard components
of the unit’s organizational equipment and serve specific purposes during combat
operations.
4-7. These weapons are mounted under the barrel of the service rifle at specific
locations. They may be removed by a qualified armorer only.

GRENADE LAUNCHERS
4-8. The M320/M320A1 grenade launcher is a lightweight grenade launcher that can
operate in a stand-alone or attached configuration. The M320/M320A1 grenade launcher
uses an integrated double-action-only trigger system. The M320 series is the
replacement weapon for the M203. (See figure 4-1.)

Figure 4-1. M320 attached to M4 series carbine example
4-9. The M203 is a breach loaded attachable grenade launcher that is affixed to the
bottom of the barrel of the M16-/M4-series rifle. The M203 cannot be used in a standalone configuration. (See figure 4-2)

Figure 4-2. M203 grenade launcher example
4-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Mountable Equipment

4-10. Each mountable 40mm grenade launcher provides the following capabilities to
the small unit (see the appropriate TM for authorized use):
 Pyrotechnic signal and spotting rounds:

Star cluster, white.

Star parachute, white.

Star parachute, green.

Star parachute, red.

Smoke, yellow.

Smoke, green.

Smoke, red.

Illumination, infrared.
 High explosive (HE).
 High explosive, dual purpose (HEDP).
 Nonlethal.
 Training practice (TP).

SHOTGUN SYSTEM
4-11. The M26 Modular Accessory Shotgun System (MASS) is an under-barrel
shotgun attachment for the M16/M4/M4A1. The M26 uses a 3- or 5-round detachable
box magazine and provides Soldiers with additional tactical capabilities. (Refer to
TC 3-22.12 for more information). (See figure 4-3.)

Figure 4-3. M26 shotgun example
4-12. The M26 provides specific tactical capabilities to the Soldier using the following
ammunition:
 Slug. Door breaching.
 Shot range, 00 buckshot.
 Nonlethal, rubber slug, buckshot, and riot control.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

4-3

Chapter 4

MOUNTABLE AIMING DEVICES
4-13. Aiming devices mounted to the weapon system should be placed in a specific
location on the weapon to maximize their capabilities. Table 4-1 provides the preferred
mounting locations of the most common attachments.
Table 4-1. Attachment Related Technical Manuals and Mounting
Technical Manual

M4/M4A1,
M16A4
UR

UR

CCO, M68

TM 9-1240-413-13&P

UR*

UR*

MT

RCO, M150

TM 9-1240-416-13&P

UR

UR

MT

AN/PVS-14

TM 11-5855-306-10

UR***

AN/PEQ-15A

TM 9-5855-1912-13&P

RG**

BA

BA

AN/PEQ-15

TM 9-5855-1914-13&P

RG**

BA

BA

AN/PAS-13B(V1), LWTS

TM 11-5855-312-10

UR

UR

MT

AN/PAS-13B(V3), HWTS

TM 11-5855-312-10

UR

UR

MT

AN/PAS-13C(V1), LWTS

TM 11-5855-316-10

UR

UR

MT

AN/PAS-13C(V3), HWTS

TM 11-5855-316-10

UR

UR

MT

AN/PAS-13D(V)1 LWTS

TM 11-5855-324-10

UR

UR

MT

AN/PAS-13D(V2), MWTS

TM 11-5855-317-10

UR

UR

MT

AN/PAS-13D(V3), HWTS

TM 11-5855-317-10

UR

UR

MT

Attachment
BUIS

M4/M4A1

M16A2/A3

AN/PSQ-23
TM 9-5855-1913-13&P
RG**
BA
Legend:
BA – Bracket Assembly
BUIS – Back up Irion Sight
CCO – Close Combat Optic
HTWS – Heavy Thermal Weapons Sight
LTWS – Light Thermal Sight
MWTS – Medium Thermal Sight
MT – M16 Mount
RCO – Rifle Combat Optic
RG – Rail Grabber
UR – Upper Receiver
* With a half-moon spacer installed.
** Picatinny or Insight rail grabbers may be used.
*** If used in conjunction with the CCO, the CCO will mount on the top rail of the ARS.

4-4

TC 3-22.9

BA

13 May 2016

Mountable Equipment

MOUNTABLE ACCESSORIES
4-14. Mountable accessories are items that may be attached to a weapon but are not
required for operation. They provide assistance stabilizing the weapon or provide whitelight illumination for specific tactical operations.
4-15. These devices are authorized as needed by the small unit. Some mountable
accessories are aftermarket (commercial-off-the-shelf, or COTS) items that use the ARS
for semipermanent attachment.

BIPOD
4-16. Bipods are highly adjustable that enhance stability within the battle space
environment. They are secured by the front sling swivel or the advanced rail system on
the foregrip of the weapon. They can be used in combination with a sand sock or other
buttstock support to provide an extremely stable firing platform. (See figure 4-4.)
4-17. The bipod is an additional means to stabilize the weapon in various shooting
positions. Despite primarily being used in prone position, bipods can be used for
additional support in alternate shooting positions while using barricade supports. The
bipod provides additional support which facilitates acquisition of muscle relaxation and
natural point of aim. The use of bipods in barricade shooting can increase the Soldier's
efficiency and probability of a first round hit while engaging targets.

Figure 4-4. Bipod example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

4-5

Chapter 4

VERTICAL FOREGRIP
4-18. Vertical foregrips (VFGs) assist in transitioning from target to target in close
quarter combat. (See figure 4-5.)
4-19. The further out the Soldier mounts the VFG, the smoother and quicker his
transitions between multiple targets will be, however he should not mount it so far
forward that using the VFG is uncomfortable.

Figure 4-5. Vertical foregrip example

FOREGRIP WITH INTEGRATED BIPODS
4-20. VFGs with integrated bipods are acceptable for common use. They combine the
VFG capability with a small, limited adjustment bipod. They typically lack the full
adjustment capabilities of full bipods, but provide a compact stable extrusion for the
firer.

MOUNTED LIGHTS
4-21. The weapon-mounted lights are commonly issued throughout the Army. The
purpose of the weapon mounted lights is to provide illumination and assist in target
acquisition and identification during limited visibility operations.
4-22. Most weapon mounted lights provide selection between white light and infrared
capabilities. Employment of the weapon mounted light is based upon mission, enemy,
terrain and weather, troops and support available, time available, civil considerations
(METT-TC) and unit SOP. The weapon mounted lights should be mounted in such a
manner that the Soldier can activate and deactivate them efficiently and their placement
does not hinder the use of any other attachment or accessory. They must be attached in
such a manner as to prevent negligent or unintentional discharge of white light
illumination during movement or climbing.

4-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Chapter 5

EMPLOYMENT
The rifleman’s primary role is to engage the enemy with well-aimed
shots. (Refer to ATP 3-21.8 for more information.) In this capacity,
the rate of fire for the M4 rifle is not based on how fast the Soldier
can pull the trigger. Rather, it is based on how fast the Soldier can
consistently acquire and engage the enemy with accuracy and
precision.
Consistently hitting a target with precision is a complex interaction
of factors immediately before, during, and after the round fires.
These interactions include maintaining postural steadiness,
establishing and maintaining the proper aim on the target,
stabilization of the weapon while pressing the trigger, and adjusting
for environmental and battlefield conditions.
5-1. Every Soldier must adapt to the firing situation, integrate the rules of firearms
safety, manipulate the fire control, and instinctively know when, how, and where to
shoot. It is directly influenced by the Soldier’s ability to hit the target under conditions
of extreme stress:
 Accurately interpret and act upon perceptual cues related to the target, front
and rear sights, rifle movement, and body movement.
 Execute minute movements of the hands, elbows, legs, feet, and cheek.
 Coordinate gross-motor control of their body positioning with fine-motor
control of the trigger finger.
5-2. Regardless of the weapon system, the goal of shooting remains constant: wellaimed shots. To achieve this end state there are two truths. Soldier’s must—
 Properly point the weapon (sight alignment and sight picture).
 Fire the weapon without disturbing the aim.
5-3. To accomplish this, Soldiers must master sight alignment, sight picture, and
trigger control.
 Sight alignment – sight alignment is the relationship between the aiming
device and the firer’s eye. To achieve proper and effective aim, the focus of
the firer’s eye needs to be on the front sight post or reticle. The Soldier must
maintain sight alignment throughout the aiming process.
 Sight picture – the sight picture is the placement of the aligned sights on the
target.
 Trigger control – the skillful manipulation of the trigger that causes the rifle
to fire without disturbing the aim.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

5-1

Chapter 5

SHOT PROCESS
5-4. The shot process is the basic outline of an individual engagement sequence all
firers consider during an engagement, regardless of the weapon employed. The shot
process formulates all decisions, calculations, and actions that lead to taking the shot.
The shot process may be interrupted at any point before the sear disengaging and firing
the weapon should the situation change.
5-5.

The shot process has three distinct phases:
Pre-shot.
 Shot.
 Post-shot.


5-6. To achieve consistent, accurate, well-aimed shots, Soldiers must understand and
correctly apply the shot process. The sequence of the shot process does not change,
however, the application of each element vary based on the conditions of the
engagement.
5-7. Every shot that the Soldier takes has a complete shot process. Grouping, for
example, is simply moving through the shot process several times in rapid succession.
5-8. The shot process allows the Soldier to focus on one cognitive task at a time. The
Soldier must maintain the ability to mentally organize the shot process’s tasks and
actions into a disciplined mental checklist, and focus their attention on activities which
produce the desired outcome; a well-aimed shot.
5-9. The level of attention allocated to each element during the shot process is
proportional to the conditions of each individual shot. Table 5-1 provides an example of
a shot process.
Table 5-1. Shot Process example

Pre-shot

Shot

Post-shot

5-2

Position
Natural Point of Aim
Sight Alignment / Picture
Hold
Refine Aim
Breathing Control
Trigger Control
Follow-through
Recoil management
Call the Shot
Evaluate

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Employment

FUNCTIONAL ELEMENTS OF THE SHOT PROCESS
5-10. Functional elements of the shot process are the linkage between the Soldier, the
weapon system, the environment, and the target that directly impact the shot process and
ultimately the consistency, accuracy, and precision of the shot. When used
appropriately, they build a greater understanding of any engagement.
5-11. The functional elements are interdependent. A accurate shot, regardless of
weapon system, requires the Soldier to establish, maintain, and sustain—
 Stability – the Soldier stabilizes the weapon to provide a consistent base to
fire from and maintain through the shot process until the recoil pulse has
ceased. This process includes how the Soldier holds the weapon, uses
structures or objects to provide stability, and the Soldier’s posture on the
ground during an engagement.
 Aim – the continuous process of orienting the weapon correctly, aligning the
sights, aligning on the target, and the appropriate lead and elevation (hold)
during a target engagement.
 Control – all the conscious actions of the Soldier before, during, and after
the shot process that the Soldier specifically is in control of. The first of
which is trigger control. This includes whether, when, and how to engage. It
incorporates the Soldier as a function of safety, as well as the ultimate
responsibility of firing the weapon.
 Movement – the process of the Soldier moving during the engagement
process. It includes the Soldier’s ability to move laterally, forward,
diagonally, and in a retrograde manner while maintaining stabilization,
appropriate aim, and control of the weapon.
5-12. These elements define the tactical engagement that require the Soldier to make
adjustments to determine appropriate actions, and compensate for external influences on
their shot process. When all elements are applied to the fullest extent, Soldiers will be
able to rapidly engage targets with the highest level of precision.
5-13. Time, target size, target distance, and the Soldier’s skills and capabilities
determine the amount of effort required of each of the functional elements to minimize
induced errors of the shot.
5-14. Each weapon, tactical situation, and sight system will have preferred techniques
for each step in the shot process and within the functional elements to produce precision
and accuracy in a timely manner. How fast or slow the shooter progresses through the
process is based on target size, target distance, and shooter capability.
5-15. The most complex form of shooting is under combat conditions when the Soldier
is moving, the enemy is moving, under limited visibility conditions. Soldiers and leaders
must continue to refine skills and move training from the simplest shot to the most
complex. Applying the functional elements during the shot process builds a firer’s speed
while maintaining consistency, accuracy, and precision during complex engagements.
5-16. Each of the functional elements and the Soldier actions to consider during the
shot process are described later in this manual.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

5-3

Chapter 5

TARGET ACQUISITION
5-17. Target acquisition is the ability of a Soldier to rapidly recognize threats to the
friendly unit or formation. It is a critical Soldier function before any shot process begins.
It includes the Soldier’s ability to use all available optics, sensors, and information to
detect potential threats as quickly as possible.
5-18. Target acquisition requires the Soldier to apply an acute attention to detail in a
continuous process based on the tactical situation. The target acquisition process
includes all the actions a Soldier must execute rapidly:
 Detect potential threats (target detection).
 Identify the threat as friend, foe, or noncombatant (target identification).
 Prioritize the threat(s) based on the level of danger they present (target
prioritization).

TARGET DETECTION
5-19. Effective target detection requires a series of skills that Soldiers must master.
Detection is an active process during combat operations with or without a clear or known
threat presence. All engagements are enabled by the Soldier’s detection skills, and are
built upon three skill sets:
 Scan and search – a rapid sequence of various techniques to identify
potential threats. Soldier scanning skills determine potential areas where
threats are most likely to appear.
 Acquire – a refinement of the initial scan and search, based on irregularities
in the environment.
 Locate – the ability to determine the general location of a threat to engage
with accuracy or inform the small unit leader of contact with a potential
threat.

Scan and Search
5-20. Scanning and searching is the art of observing an assigned sector. The goal of the
scan and search is a deliberate detection of potential threats based on irregularities in the
surrounding environment. This includes irregular shapes, colors, heat sources,
movement, or actions the Soldier perceives as being “out of place,” as compared to the
surrounding area.
5-21. Soldiers use five basic search and scan techniques to detect potential threats in
combat situations:
 Rapid scan – used to detect obvious signs of threat activity quickly. It is
usually the first method used, whether on the offense or fighting in the
defense.
 Slow scan – if no threats are detected during the rapid scan, Soldiers conduct
the more deliberate scan using various optics, aiming devices, or sensors. The
slow scan is best conducted in the defense or during slow movement or
tactical halts.

5-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Employment






Horizontal scan – are used when operating in restricted or urban terrain. It
is a horizontal sweeping scan that focuses on key areas where potential threats
may be over watching their movement or position.
Vertical scan – an up and down scan in restricted or urban environments to
identify potential threats that may be observing the unit from an elevated
position.
Detailed search – used when no threats are detected using other scanning
methods. The detailed search uses aiming devices, thermal weapon systems,
magnified optics, or other sensors to slowly and methodically review
locations of interest where the Soldier would be positioned if they were the
threat (where would I be if I were them?)

Acquire
5-22. Target acquisition is the discovery of any object in the operational environment
such as personnel, vehicles, equipment, or objects of potential military significance.
Target acquisition occurs during target scan and search as a direct result of observation
and the detection process.
5-23. During the scan and search, Soldiers are looking for “target signatures,” which
are signs or evidence of a threat. Tactically, Soldiers will be looking for threat personnel,
obstacles or mines (including possible improvised explosive devices [IEDs]), vehicles,
or anti-tank missile systems. These target signatures can be identified with sight, sound,
or smell.

Detection Best Practices
5-24. Threat detection is a critical skill that requires thoughtful application of the
sensors, optics, and systems at the Soldier’s disposal. Finding potential threats as quickly
and effectively as possible provides the maximum amount of time to defeat the threat.
Soldiers should be familiar with the following best practices to increase target detection:
 Scan with the unaided eye first, then with a magnified optic.
 Practice using I2 and thermal optics in tandem during limited visibility.
 Understand the difference between I2 and thermal optics; what they can
“see” and what they can’t. (See chapter 4 of this publication.)
 Thermal optics are the preferred sight for target acquisition and engagement,
day or night.
 Don’t search in the same area as others in the small unit. Overlap, but do not
focus on the same sector.
 Practice extreme light discipline during limited visibility including IR light
discipline.
 Think as the threat. Search in areas that would be most advantageous from
their perspective.
 Detecting threats is exponentially more difficult when operating in a
chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear (CBRN) environment. Practice
detection skills with personal protective equipment (PPE)/individual
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

5-5

Chapter 5

protective equipment (IPE) and understand the increased constraints and
limitations, day and night.

Locate
5-25. Target location is the determination of where a target is in your operational
environment in relation to the shooter, small unit, or element. Locating a target or series
of targets occurs as a result of the search and acquisition actions of each Soldier in the
small unit.
5-26. Once a target is located, the threat location can be rapidly and efficiently
communicated to the rest of the unit. Methods used to announce a located target depend
on the individual’s specific position, graphic control measures for the operation, unit
SOP, and time available.

TARGET IDENTIFICATION
5-27. Identifying (or discriminating) a target as friend, foe, or noncombatant (neutral)
is the second step in the target acquisition process. The Soldier must be able to positively
identify the threat into one of three classifications:
 Friend. Any force, U.S. or allied, that is jointly engaged in combat
operations with an enemy in a theater of operation.
 Foe (enemy combatant). Any individual who has engaged acts against the
U.S. or its coalition partners in violation of the laws and customs of war
during an armed conflict.
 Noncombatants. Personnel, organizations, or agencies that are not taking a
direct part in hostilities. This includes individuals such as medical personnel,
chaplains, United Nations observers, or media representatives or those out of
combat such as the wounded or sick. Organizations like the Red Cross or
Red Crescent can be classified as noncombatants.
5-28. The identification process is complicated by the increasing likelihood of having
to discriminate between friend/foe and combatant/noncombatant in urban settings or
restricted terrain. To mitigate fratricide and unnecessary collateral damage, Soldiers use
all of the situational understanding tools available and develop tactics, techniques, and
procedures for performing target discrimination.

Fratricide Prevention
5-29. Units have other means of designating friendly vehicles from the enemy.
Typically, these marking systems are derived from the unit tactical standard operating
procedure (TACSOP) or other standardization publications, and applied to the
personnel, small units, or vehicles as required:
 Markings. Unit markings are defined within the unit SOP. They distinctly
identify a vehicle as friendly in a standardized manner.
 Panels. VS-17 panels provide a bright recognition feature that allows
Soldiers to identify friendly vehicles through the day sight during unlimited
visibility. Panels do not provide a thermal signature.

5-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Employment




Lighting. Chemical or light emitting diode lights provide a means of
marking vehicles at night. However, chemical lights are not visible through
a thermal sight. An IR variant is available for use with night vision devices.
Lighting systems do not provide for thermal identification during day or
limited visibility operations.
Beacons and Strobes. Beacons and strobes are unit-procured, small-scale,
compact, battery-operated flashing devices that operate in the near infrared
wavelength. They are clearly visibly through night vision optics, but cannot
be viewed through thermal optics.
Note. Beacons and strobes generate illumination signals that can
only be viewed by I2 optics. The signal cannot be viewed by thermal
optics. Leaders and Soldiers are required to be aware of which optic
can effectively view these systems when developing their SOPs and
when using them in training or combat.
Beacons and strobes have the potential to be viewed by enemy
elements with night vision capabilities. Units should tailor use of the
beacon based on METT-TC.



Symbols. Unit symbols may be used to mark friendly vehicles. An inverted
V, for example, painted on the flanks, rear, and fronts of a vehicle, aid in
identifying a target as friendly. These are typically applied in an area of
operations and not during training. Symbol marking systems do not provide
for thermal identification during day or limited visibility operations.

TARGET PRIORITIZATION
5-30. When faced with multiple targets, the Soldier must prioritize each target and
carefully plan his shots to ensure successful target engagement. Mental preparedness
and the ability to make split-second decisions are the keys to a successful engagement
of multiple targets. The proper mindset will allow the Soldier to react instinctively and
control the pace of the battle, rather than reacting to the adversary threat.
5-31. Targets are prioritized into three threat levels—
 Most dangerous. A threat that has the capability to defeat the friendly force
and is preparing to do so. These targets must be defeated immediately.
 Dangerous. A threat that has the capability to defeat the friendly force, but
is not prepared to do so. These targets are defeated after all most dangerous
targets are eliminated.
 Least dangerous. Any threat that does not have the ability to defeat the
friendly force, but has the ability to coordinate with other threats that are
more prepared. These targets are defeated after all threats of a higher threat
level are defeated.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

5-7

Chapter 5

5-32. When multiple targets of the same threat level are encountered, the targets are
prioritized according to the threat they represent. The standard prioritization of targets
establishes the order of engagement. Firers engage similar threats by the following
guide:
 Near before far.
 Frontal before flank.
 Stationary before moving.
5-33. The prioritization of targets provides a control mechanism for the shooter, and
facilitates maintaining overmatch over the presented threats. Firers should be prepared
deviate from the prioritization guide based on the situation, collective fire command, or
changes to the target’s activities.

5-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Chapter 6

Stability
Stability is the ability of the Soldier to create a stable firing platform
for the engagement. The Soldier stabilizes the weapon to provide a
consistent base from which to fire from and maintain through the
shot process until the recoil impulse has ceased. This process
includes how the Soldier holds the weapon, uses structures or
objects to provide stability, and the Soldier’s posture on the ground
during an engagement. A stable firing platform is essential during
the shot process, whether the Soldier is stationary or moving.
This chapter provides the principles of developing a stable firing
platform, describes the interaction between the Soldier, weapon, the
surroundings, and the methods to achieve the greatest amount of
stability in various positions. It explains how the stability functional
element supports the shot process and interacts and integrates the
other three elements. Stability provides a window of opportunity to
maintain sight alignment and sight picture for the most accurate
shot.

SUPPORT
6-1. Stability is provided through four functions: support, muscle relaxation, natural
point of aim, and recoil management. These functions provide the Soldier the means to
best stabilize their weapon system during the engagement process.
6-2. The placement or arrangement of sandbags, equipment, or structures that directly
provide support to the upper receiver of the weapon to provide increased stability. This
includes the use of a bipod or vertical foregrip, bone and muscle support provided by
the shooter to stabilize the rifle.
6-3. Support can be natural or artificial or a combination of both. Natural support
comes from a combination of the shooter’s bones and muscles. Artificial support comes
from objects outside the shooter’s body. The more support a particular position provides,
the more stable the weapon.
 Leg Position. The position of the legs varies greatly depending on the firing
position used. The position may require the legs to support the weight of the
Soldier’s body, support the firing elbow, or to meet other requirements for
the firing position. When standing unsupported, the body is upright with the
legs staggered and knees slightly bent. In the prone, the firer’s legs may be
spread apart flat on the ground or bent at the knee. In the sitting position, the
legs may also serve an intricate part of the firing position.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-1

Chapter 6











6-2

Stance/Center of Gravity. The physical position of a Soldier before, during,
and after the shot that relates to the firer’s balance and posture. The
position/center of gravity does not apply when firing from the prone position.
The position/center of gravity specifically relates to the Soldier’s ability to
maintain the stable firing platform during firing, absorbing the recoil
impulses, and the ability to aggressively lean toward the target area during
the shot process.
Firing Elbow. The placement of the firing elbow during the shot process.
Proper elbow placement provides consistent firing hand grip while standing,
sitting, or kneeling, and provides support stability in the prone position.
Nonfiring Elbow. The Soldier’s placement of the nonfiring elbow during
the shot process supports the rifle in the all positions.
Firing Hand. Proper placement of the firing hand will aid in trigger control.
Place the pistol grip in the ‘V’ formed between the thumb and index finger.
The pressure applied is similar to a firm handshake grip. Different Soldiers
have different size hands and lengths of fingers, so there is no set position of
the finger on the trigger. To grip the weapon, the Soldier places the back
strap of the weapon’s pistol grip high in the web of his firing side hand
between his thumb and index (trigger) finger. The Soldier’s trigger finger is
indexed on the lower receiver, well outside the trigger guard and off the
magazine release to prevent inadvertent release of the magazine. The firing
hand thumb (or trigger finger for left-handed firers) is indexed on top of the
safety selector switch. The Soldier grasps the pistol grip with his remaining
three fingers ensuring there is no gap between his middle finger and the
trigger guard.
Nonfiring Hand. Proper placement of the non-firing hand is based on the
firing position and placement of the non-firing elbow to provide the stability
of the weapon. Placement is adjusted during supported and unsupported
firing to maximize stability. The non-firing hand is placed as far forward as
comfortable without compromising the other elements of the position or
inducing extreme shooter-gun angle.

The nonfiring hand supports the weight of the rifle by grasping the fore
arm. It should be a firm but relaxed grip. In all positions it should be as
close to the handguard as naturally possible to aid in recoil management.

If possible, the firer should strive to have the thumb of the nonfiring
hand provide downward force on the handguard. The pressure will
provide the necessary force to assist in the management of the muzzle
rise from recoil.

In all positions it should be as close to the end of the handguard as
naturally possible to aid in recoil management.

Due to limited space on current MWS rails the above may not be
possible but consideration should be given while mounting lasers to
achieve an extended grip.
Butt Stock. Correct placement of the butt stock in the firing shoulder will
aid in achieving a solid stock weld. Side to side placement will vary
TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability



depending on equipment worn while firing. The butt stock is placed high
enough in the shoulder to allow for an upright head position.

The vertical placement of the butt stock will vary from firing position to
firing position. A general guideline to follow is: the higher the position
from the ground, the higher the butt stock will be in the shoulder.

The term “butt stock” refers to both the butt stock (M16-series) and
collapsible butt stock (M4-series) for clarity.
Stock Weld. Stock weld is the placement of the firer’s head on the stock of
the weapon. Correct stock weld is critical to sight alignment. The firer rests
the full weight of the head on the stock. The head position is as upright as
possible to give the best vision through the aiming device. It allows for
scanning additional targets not seen through the aiming device.

When establishing the stock weld, bring the rifle up to your head, not
your head down to the rifle. The firer’s head will remain in the same
location on the stock while firing, but the location may change when
positions are changed. The bony portion of the cheek placed on the stock
is the basic starting point. Soldiers adapt to their facial structure to find
the optimal placement that allows for both sight alignment and repetitive
placement.

Figure 6-1 shows the differences in head placement, which effects sight
alignment. The firer on the right is NOT resting the full weight of their
head on the stock. The picture on the left shows the skin of the firer’s
head being pushed down by the full weight of their head. This technique
can be quickly observed and corrected by a peer coach.

Note. Soldiers’ bodies vary with the amount of flesh and the bone structure
of the face. Firers who apply downward force simply to achieve the
appearance in the correct (left) image in figure 6-1, on page 6-4, will not have
relaxation and will not have a repeatable placement. The goal is to have
alignment with consistent placement.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-3

Chapter 6

Figure 6-1. Stock weld

MUSCLE RELAXATION
6-4. Muscle relaxation is the ability of the Soldier to maintain orientation of the
weapon appropriately during the shot process while keeping the major muscle groups
from straining to maintain the weapon system’s position. Relaxed muscles contribute to
stability provided by support.
 Strained or fatigued muscles detract from stability.
 As a rule, the more support from the shooter’s bones the less he requires from
his muscles.
 The more skeletal support, the more stable the position, as bones do not
fatigue or strain.
 As a rule, the less muscle support required, the longer the shooter can stay in
position.

NATURAL POINT OF AIM
6-5. The natural point of aim is the point where the barrel naturally orients when the
shooter’s muscles are relaxed and support is achieved. The natural point of aim is built
upon the following principles:
 The closer the natural point of aim is to the target, the less muscle support
required.
 The more stable the position, the more resistant to recoil it is.
 More of the shooter’s body on the ground equals a more stable position.
 More of the shooter’s body on the ground equals less mobility for the shooter.
6-6. When a Soldier aims at a target, the lack of stability creates a wobble area, where
the sights oscillate slightly around and through the point of aim. If the wobble area is
larger than the target, the Soldier requires a steadier position or a refinement to their
position to decrease the size of his wobble area before trigger squeeze.

6-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

Note. The steadier the position, the smaller the wobble area. The smaller the
wobble area, the more precise the shot.
6-7. To check a shooter’s natural point of aim, the Soldier should assume a good
steady position and get to the natural pause. Close their eyes, go through one cycle, and
then open their eyes on the natural pause. Where the sights are laying at this time, is the
natural point of aim for that position. If it is not on their point of aim for their target,
they should make small adjustments to their position to get the reticle or front sight post
back on their point of aim. The Soldier will repeat this process until the natural point of
aim is on the point of aim on their target.

RECOIL MANAGEMENT
6-8. Recoil management is the result of a Soldier assuming and maintaining a stable
firing position which mitigates the disturbance of one's sight picture during the cycle of
function of the weapon.
6-9. The Soldier’s firing position manages recoil using support of the weapon system,
the weight of their body, and the placement of the weapon during the shot process.
Proper recoil management allows the sights to rapidly return to the target and allows for
faster follow up shots.

SHOOTER–GUN ANGLE
6-10. The shooter gun-angle is the relationship between the shooters upper body and
the direction of the weapon. This angle is typically different from firing position to firing
position, and directly relates to the Soldier’s ability to control recoil. Significant changes
in the shooter-gun angle can result in eye relief and stock weld changes.
Note. Units with a mix of left and right handed shooters can take advantage
of each Soldiers' natural carry positions, and place left-handed shooters on
the right flanks, and right-handed shooters on the left flanks, as their natural
carry alignment places the muzzle away from the core element, and outward
toward potential threats, and reduces the challenges of firing when moving
laterally.

FIELD OF VIEW
6-11. The field of view is the extent that the human eye can see at any given moment.
The field of view is based on the Soldier’s view without using magnification, optics, or
thermal devices. The field of view is what the Soldier sees, and includes the areas where
the Soldier can detect potential threats.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-5

Chapter 6

CARRY POSITIONS
6-12. There are six primary carry positions. These positions may be directed by the
leader, or assumed by the Soldier based on the tactical situation. The primary positions
are—
 Hang.
 Safe hang.
 Collapsed low ready.
 Low ready.
 High ready.
 Ready (or ready-up).

6-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

HANG
6-13. Soldiers use the hang when they need their hands for other tasks and no threat is
present or likely (see figure 6-2). The weapon is slung and the safety is engaged. The
hang carry should not be used when the weapon control status is RED. The reduced
security of the weapon may cause the mechanical safety select lever to unintentionally
move to SEMI or BURST/AUTO.

Figure 6-2. Hang carry example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-7

Chapter 6

SAFE HANG
6-14. The safe hang is used when no immediate threat is present and the hands are not
necessary (see figure 6-3). In the safe hang carry, the weapon is slung, the safety is
engaged, and the Soldier has gripped the rifle’s pistol grip. The Soldier sustains Rule 3,
keeping the finger off the trigger until ready to engage when transitioning to the ready
or ready up position.
6-15. In this position, the Soldier can move in any direction while simultaneously
maintaining his muzzle oriented at the ground by using his firing hand. This carry
provides control of the weapon, flexibility in movement, and positive control of the
weapon’s fire controls.

Figure 6-3. Safe hang example

6-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

COLLAPSED LOW READY
6-16. The collapsed low ready is used when a greater degree of muzzle control and
readiness to respond to threats or weapon retention is necessary (such as crowded
environments). In the collapsed low ready, the firing hand is secure on the weapon’s
pistol grip. The non-firing hand is placed on the hand guards or vertical foregrip (see
figure 6-4).
6-17. This carry allows a Soldier to navigate crowded or restrictive environments while
simultaneously minimizing or eliminating his muzzle covering (flagging) by
maintaining positive control of the muzzle orientation.

Figure 6-4. Collapsed low ready example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-9

Chapter 6

LOW READY
6-18. The low ready provides the highest level of readiness and with the maximum
amount of observable area for target acquisition purposes
6-19. In the low ready position, the weapon is slung, the butt stock is in the Soldier’s
shoulder, and the muzzle is angled down at a 30- to 45-degree angle and oriented
towards the Soldier’s sector of fire.
6-20. Firing hand is positioned on the pistol grip with the index finger straight and out
of the trigger guard. The thumb is placed on the selector lever with the lever placed on
safe. From this carry, the Soldier is ready to engage threats within a very short amount
of time with minimal movement. (See figure 6-5).
6-21. Observation is maintained to the sector of fire. The Soldier looks over the top of
his optics or sights to maintain situation awareness of his sector. The Soldier’s head
remains upright.

Figure 6-5. Low ready position

6-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

HIGH READY
6-22. The high ready is used when the Soldier’s sector of fire includes areas overhead or
when an elevated muzzle orientation is appropriate for safety (see figure 6-6). The high
ready carry is used when contact is likely.
6-23. In the high ready, the weapon is slung, butt stock is in the armpit, the muzzle
angled up to at least a 45-degree angle and oriented toward the Soldier’s sector of fire—
ensuring no other Soldiers are flagged.
6-24. The firing hand remains in the same position as the low ready. The non-firing
side hand can be free as the weapon is supported by the firing side hand and armpit.
6-25. This position is not as effective as the low ready for several reasons: it impedes
the field of view, flags friendlies above the sector of fire, and typically takes longer to
acquire the target.

Figure 6-6. High ready position

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-11

Chapter 6

READY OR READY-UP
6-26. The ready is used when enemy contact is imminent (see figure 6-7). This carry is
used when the Soldier is preparing or prepared to engage a threat.
6-27. In the ready, the weapon is slung, the toe of the butt stock is in the Soldier’s
shoulder, and muzzle is oriented toward a threat or most likely direction of enemy
contact. The Soldier is looking through his optics or sights. His non-firing side hand
remains on the hand guards or the vertical foregrip.
6-28. The firing hand remains on the pistol grip with the firing finger off the trigger
until the decision to engage a target is made.

Figure 6-7. Ready position or up position

6-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

STABILIZED FIRING
6-29. The Soldier must stabilize their weapon, whether firing from a stationary position
or while on the move. To create a stabilized platform, Soldiers must understand the
physical relationship between the weapon system, the shooter’s body, the ground, and
any other objects touching the weapon or shooter’s body. The more contact the shooter
has to the ground will determine how stable and effective the position is. The situation
and tactics will determine the actual position used.
6-30. When a shooter assumes a stable firing position, movement from muscle tension,
breathing, and other natural activities within the body will be transferred to the weapon
and must be compensated for by the shooter.
6-31. Failing to create an effective platform to fire from is termed a stabilization
failure. A stabilization failure occurs when a Soldier fails to:
 Control the movement of the barrel during the arc of movement
 Adequately support the weapon system
 Achieve their natural point of aim.
6-32. These failures compound the firing occasion’s errors, which directly correlate to
the accuracy of the shot taken. To maximize the Soldier’s stability during the shot
process, they correctly assume various firing positions when stationary, or offset the
induced errors with other firing skills during tactical movement.
6-33. As a rule, positions that are lower to the ground provide a higher level of stability.
When the center of gravity elevates the level of stability decreases as shown in
figure°6-8.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-13

Chapter 6

Figure 6-8. Firing position stability example

6-14

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

FIRING POSITIONS
6-34. The nature of combat will not always allow time for a Soldier to get into a
particular position. Soldiers need to practice firing in a variety of positions, including
appropriate variations. There are 12 firing positions with variations that are common to
all Soldiers. The positions are listed highest to lowest. The primary position is listed in
bold, with the position variations in italics:
 Standing –

Standing, unsupported.

Standing, supported.
 Squatting – This position allows for rapid engagement of targets when an
obstruction blocks the firer from using standard positions. It provides the
firer a fairly well supported position by simply squatting down to engage,
then returning to a standing position once the engagement is complete. The
squatting position is generally unsupported.
 Kneeling – The kneeling position is very common and useful in most combat
situations. The kneeling position can be supported or unsupported.

Kneeling, unsupported.

Kneeling, supported.
 Sitting – There are three types of sitting positions: crossed-ankle, crossedleg, and open-leg. All positions are easy to assume, present a medium
silhouette, provide some body contact with the ground, and form a stable
firing position. These positions allow easy access to the sights for zeroing.

Sitting, crossed ankle.

Sitting, crossed leg.

Sitting, open leg.
 Prone – The prone position is the most stable firing position due to the
amount of the Soldier’s body is in contact with the ground. The majority of
the firer’s frame is behind the rifle to assist with recoil management.

Prone, unsupported.

Prone, supported.

Prone, roll-over.

Prone, reverse roll-over.
6-35. Soldiers must practice the positions dry frequently to establish their natural point
of aim for each position, and develop an understanding of the restrictive nature of their
equipment during execution. With each dry repetition, the Soldier’s ability to change
positions rapidly and correctly are developed, translating into efficient movement and
consistent stable firing positions.
6-36. Each of these firing positions is described using in a standard format using the
terms defined earlier.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-15

Chapter 6

STANDING, UNSUPPORTED
6-37. This position should be used for closer targets or when time is not available to
assume a steadier position such as short range employment. The upper body should be
leaned slightly forward to aid in recoil management. The key focus areas for the standing
supported position are applied as described in figure 6-9 below:

Figure 6-9. Standing, unsupported example

6-16

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

STANDING, SUPPORTED
6-38. Soldier should ensure it is the handguard of the weapon NOT the barrel that is in
contact with the artificial support. Barrels being in direct contact with artificial support
will result in erratic shots. The standing supported position uses artificial support to
steady the position (see figure 6-10.) Forward pressure should be applied by the rear leg
and upper body to aid in recoil management. The key focus area for the standing
supported position are applied in the following ways:
Nonfiring hand. The nonfiring hand will hold the hand guards firmly and push
against the artificial support. Hand positioning will vary depending on the type
of support used.

Figure 6-10. Standing, supported example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-17

Chapter 6

SQUATTING
6-39. This position allows for rapid engagement of targets when an obstruction blocks
the firer from using standard positions. It allows the firer a fairly stable position by
simply squatting down to engage, then returning to a standing position after completing
the engagement (see figure 6-11.)
6-40. Perform the following to assume a good squatting firing position:
 Face the target.
 Place the feet shoulder-width apart.
 Squat down as far as possible.
 Place the back of triceps on the knees ensuring there is no bone on bone
contact.
 Place the firing hand on the pistol grip and the nonfiring hand on the upper
hand guards.
 Place the weapon's butt stock high in the firer’s shoulder pocket.
Note. The firer may opt to use pressure from firing hand to rotate weapon to
place the magazine against the opposite forearm to aid in stabilization.

Figure 6-11. Squatting position

6-18

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

KNEELING, UNSUPPORTED
6-41. The kneeling unsupported position does not use artificial support. Figure 6-12
shows the optimum unsupported kneeling position. The firer should be leaning slightly
forward into the position to allow for recoil management and quicker follow-up shots.
The primary goal of this firing position is to establish the smallest wobble area possible.
Key focus areas for kneeling, unsupported are:
 Nonfiring elbow. Place the non-firing elbow directly underneath the rifle as
much as possible. The elbow should be placed either in front of or behind the
kneecap. Placing the elbow directly on the kneecap will cause it to roll and
increases the wobble area.
 Leg position. The non-firing leg should be bent approximately 90 degrees at
the knee and be directly under the rifle. The firing-side leg should be
perpendicular to the nonfiring leg. The firer may rest their body weight on
the heel. Some firers lack the flexibility to do this and may have a gap
between their buttocks and the heel.
 Aggressive (stretch) kneeling. All weight on non-firing foot, thigh to calf,
upper body leaning forward, nonfiring triceps on non-firing knee, firing leg
stretched behind for support. Highly effective for rapid fire and movement.

Figure 6-12. Kneeling, unsupported example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-19

Chapter 6

KNEELING, SUPPORTED
6-42. The kneeling supported position uses artificial support to steady the position (see
figure 6-13). Contact by the nonfiring hand and elbow with the artificial support is the
primary difference between the kneeling supported and unsupported positions since it
assists in the stability of the weapon. Body contact is good, but the barrel of the rifle
must not touch the artificial support. Forward pressure is applied to aid in recoil
management. The key focus areas for the kneeling supported position are applied in the
following ways:
 Nonfiring hand. The nonfiring hand will hold the hand guards firmly and
will also be pushed against the artificial support. Hand positioning will vary
depending on the type of support used.
 Nonfiring elbow. The nonfiring elbow and forearm may be used to assist
with the weapon’s stability by pushing against the artificial support. The
contact of the nonfiring elbow and forearm with the structure will vary
depending on the support used and the angle to the target.

Figure 6-13. Kneeling, supported example

6-20

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

SITTING, CROSSED-ANKLE
6-43. The sitting, crossed-ankle position provides a broad base of support and places
most of the body weight behind the weapon (see figure 6-14). This allows quick shot
recovery and recoil impulse absorption. Perform the following to assume a good
crossed-ankle position:
 Face the target at a 10- to 30-degree angle.
 Place the nonfiring hand under the hand guard.
 Bend at knees and break fall with the firing hand.
 Push backward with feet to extend legs and place the buttocks to ground.
 Cross the non-firing ankle over the firing ankle.
 Bend forward at the waist.
 Place the non-firing elbow on the nonfiring leg below knee.
 Grasp the rifle butt with the firing hand and place into the firing shoulder
pocket.
 Grasp the pistol grip with the firing hand.
 Lower the firing elbow to the inside of the firing knee.
 Place the cheek firmly against the stock to obtain a firm stock weld.
 Move the nonfiring hand to a location under the hand guard that provides the
maximum bone support and stability for the weapon.

Figure 6-14. Sitting position—crossed ankle
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-21

Chapter 6

SITTING, CROSSED-LEG
6-44. The crossed-leg sitting position provides a base of support and places most of the
body weight behind the weapon for quick shot recovery (see figure 6-15). Soldiers may
experience a strong pulse beat in this position due to restricted blood flow in the legs
and abdomen. An increased pulse causes a larger wobble area.
6-45. Perform the following to assume a good crossed-leg position:
 Place the nonfiring hand under the hand guard.
 Cross the nonfiring leg over the firing leg.
 Bend at the knees and break the fall with the firing hand.
 Place the buttocks to the ground close to the crossed legs.
 Bend forward at the waist.
 Place the nonfiring elbow on the nonfiring leg at the bend of the knee.
 Establish solid butt stock position in the firing shoulder pocket.
 Grasp the pistol grip with the firing hand.
 Lower the firing elbow to the inside of the firing knee.
 Place the cheek firmly against the stock to obtain a firm stock weld.
 Place the non-firing hand under the hand guard to provide support.

Figure 6-15. Sitting position—crossed-leg

6-22

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

SITTING, OPEN-LEG
6-46. The open-leg sitting position is the preferred sitting position when shooting with
combat equipment (see figure 6-16). It places less of the body weight behind the weapon
than the other sitting positions. Perform the following to assume a good open-leg
position:
 Face the target at a 10 to 30 degree angle to the firing of the line of fire.
 Place the feet approximately shoulder width apart.
 Place the nonfiring hand under the hand guard.
 Bend at the knees while breaking the fall with the firing hand. Push backward
with the feet to extend the legs and place the buttocks on ground.
 Place the both the firing and non-firing elbow inside the knees.
 Grasp the rifle butt with the firing hand and place into the firing shoulder
pocket.
 Grasp the pistol grip with the firing hand.
 Lower the firing elbow to the inside of the firing knee.
 Place the cheek firmly against the stock to obtain a firm stock weld.
 Move nonfiring hand to a location under the hand guard that provides
maximum bone support and stability for the weapon.

Figure 6-16. Sitting position—open leg

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-23

Chapter 6

PRONE, UNSUPPORTED
6-47. The prone unsupported position is not as stable as the prone supported position
(see figure 6-17). Soldiers must build a stable, consistent position that focuses on the
following key areas:
 Firing hand. The firer should have a firm handshake grip on the pistol grip
and place their finger on the trigger where it naturally falls.
 Nonfiring hand. The nonfiring hand is placed to control the weapon and is
comfortable.
 Leg position. The firer’s legs may be either spread with heels as flat as
possible on ground or the firing side leg may be bent at the knee to relieve
pressure on the stomach.

Figure 6-17. Prone, unsupported example
Note. The magazine can be rested on the ground while using the prone
unsupported position. Firing with the magazine on the ground will NOT
induce a malfunction.

6-24

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

PRONE, SUPPORTED
6-48. The prone supported position allows for the use of support, such as sandbags (see
figure 6-18). Soldiers must build a stable, consistent position that focuses on the
following key areas:
 Firing hand. The firer should have a firm handshake grip on the pistol grip
and place their finger on the trigger where it naturally falls.
 Nonfiring hand. The nonfiring hand is placed to maximize control the
weapon and where it is comfortable on the artificial support.
 Leg position. The firer’s legs may be either spread with heels as flat as
possible on ground or the firing side leg may be bent at the knee to relieve
pressure on the stomach.
 Artificial support. The artificial support should be at a height that allows
for stability without interfering with the other elements of the position.

Figure 6-18. Prone, supported example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-25

Chapter 6

PRONE, ROLL-OVER
6-49. This position allows the firer to shoot under obstacles or cover that would not
normally be attainable from the standard conventional prone position (see figure 6-19).
With this position, the bullet trajectory will be off compared to the line of sight and
increase with distance from the firer.
For example, in the figure below the sights are rotated to the right. The
trajectory of the bullet will be lower than and to the right of point of aim. This
error will increase with range.

Figure 6-19. Prone, roll-over example

6-26

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Stability

PRONE, REVERSE ROLL-OVER
6-50. This position is primarily used when the firer needs to keep behind cover that is
too low to use while in a traditional prone position (see figure 6-20). The bullet’s
trajectory will be off considerably at long distances while in this position.
6-51. This position is the most effective way to support the weapon when the traditional
prone is too low to be effective and where a kneeling position is too high to gain cover
or a solid base for support.

Figure 6-20. Reverse roll-over prone firing position

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

6-27

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 7

Aim
The functional element aim of the shot process is the continuous
process of orienting the weapon correctly, aligning the sights,
aligning on the target, and the application of the appropriate lead
and elevation during a target engagement. Aiming is a continuous
process conducted through pre-shot, shot, and post-shot, to
effectively apply lethal fires in a responsible manner with accuracy
and precision.
Aiming is the application of perfectly aligned sights on a specific
part of a target. Sight alignment is the first and most important part
of this process.

COMMON ENGAGEMENTS
7-1. The aiming process for engaging stationary targets consist of the following
Soldier actions, regardless of the optic, sight, or magnification used by the aiming
device:
 Weapon orientation – the direction of the weapon as it is held in a stabilized
manner.
 Sight alignment – the physical alignment of the aiming device:

Iron sight/back-up iron sight and the front sight post.

Optic reticle.

Ballistic reticle (day or thermal).
 Sight picture – the target as viewed through the line of sight.
 Point of aim (POA) – the specific location where the line of sight intersects
the target.
 Desired point of impact (POI)–the desired location of the strike of the
round to achieve the desired outcome (incapacitation or lethal strike).
7-2. The aim of the weapon is typically applied to the largest, most lethal area of any
target presented. Sights can be placed on target by using battlesight zero (BZ), center of
visible mass (CoVM). The center of visible mass is the initial point of aim on a target of
what can be seen by the Soldier. It does not include what the target size is expected or
anticipated to be. For example, a target located behind a car exposes its head. The center
of visible mass is in the center of the head, not the estimated location of the center of the
overall target behind the car.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-1

Chapter 7

WEAPON ORIENTATION
7-3. The Soldier orients the weapon in the direction of the detected threat. Weapon
orientation includes both the horizontal plane (azimuth) and the vertical plane
(elevation). Weapon orientation is complete once the sight and threat are in the Soldier’s
field of view.
 Horizontal weapons orientation covers the frontal arc of the Soldier,
spanning the area from the left shoulder, across the Soldier’s front, to the
area across the right shoulder (see figure 7-1).

Figure 7-1. Horizontal weapon orientation example

7-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim


Vertical weapons orientation includes all the aspects of orienting the
weapon at a potential or confirmed threat in elevation. This is most
commonly applied in restricted, mountainous, or urban terrain where threats
present themselves in elevated or depressed firing positions (see figure 7-2).

Figure 7-2. Vertical weapons orientation example

SIGHT ALIGNMENT
7-4. Sight alignment is the relationship between the aiming device and the firer’s eye.
The process used by a Soldier depends on the aiming device employed with the weapon.
 Iron sight – the relationship between the front sight post, rear sight aperture,
and the firer’s eye. The firer aligns the tip of the front sight post in the center
of the rear aperture and his/or her eye. The firer will maintain focus on the
front sight post, simultaneously centering it in the rear aperture.
 Optics – the relationship between the reticle and the firer’s eye and includes
the appropriate eye relief, or distance of the Soldier’s eye from the optic
itself. Ensure the red dot is visible in the CCO, or a full centered field of view
is achieved with no shadow on magnified optics
 Thermal – the relationship between the firer’s eye, the eyepiece, and the
reticle.
 Pointers / Illuminators / Lasers – the relationship between the firer’s eye,
the night vision device placement and focus, and the laser aiming point on
the target.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-3

Chapter 7

Note. Small changes matter - 1/1000 of an inch deviation at the weapon can
result in up to an 18 inch deviation at 300 meters.
7-5. The human eye can only focus clearly on one object at a time. To achieve proper
and effective aim, the focus of the firer’s eye needs to be on the front sight post or reticle
(see figure 7-3). This provides the most accurate sight alignment for the shot process.

Figure 7-3. Front sight post/reticle aim focus
7-6. Firers achieve consistent sight alignment by resting the full weight of their head
on the stock in a manner that allows their dominant eye to look through the center of the
aiming or sighting device. If the firer’s head placement is subjected to change during the
firing process or between shots, the Soldier will experience difficultly achieving
accurate shot groups.
7-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim

SIGHT PICTURE
7-7. The sight picture is the placement of the aligned sights on the target itself. The
Soldier must maintain sight alignment throughout the positioning of the sights. This is
not the same as sight alignment.
7-8. There are two sight pictures used during the shot process; pre-shot and post-shot.
Soldiers must remember the sight pictures of the shot to complete the overall shot
process.
 Pre-shot sight picture – encompasses the original point of aim, sight picture,
and any holds for target or environmental conditions.
 Post-shot sight picture – is what the Soldier must use as the point of reference
for any sight adjustments for any subsequent shot.

POINT OF AIM
7-9. The point on the target that is the continuation of the line created by sight
alignment. The point of aim is a point of reference used to calculate any hold the Soldier
deems necessary to achieve the desired results of the round’s impact.
7-10. For engagements against stationary targets, under 300 meters, with negligible
wind, and a weapon that has a 200 meter or 300 meter confirmed zero, the point of aim
should be the center of visible mass of the target. The point of aim does not include
ANY hold-off or lead changes necessary.

DESIRED POINT OF IMPACT
7-11. The desired point of impact is the location where the Soldier wants the projectile
to strike the target. Typically, this is the center of visible mass. At any range different
from the weapon’s zero distance, the Soldier’s desired point of impact and their point of
aim will not align. This requires the Soldier to determine the necessary hold-off to
achieve the desired point of impact.

COMMON AIMING ERRORS
7-12. Orienting and aiming a weapon correctly is a practiced skill. Through drills and
repetitions, Soldiers build the ability to repeat proper weapons orientation, sight
alignment, and sight picture as a function of muscle memory.
7-13. The most common aiming errors include:
 Non-dominant eye use – The Soldier gets the greatest amount of visual input
from their dominant eye. Eye dominance varies Soldier to Soldier. Some
Soldier’s dominant eye will be the opposite of the dominant hand. For
example, a Soldier who writes with his right hand and learns to shoot rifles
right handed might learn that his dominant eye is the left eye. This is called
cross-dominant. Soldiers with strong cross-dominant eyes should consider
firing using their dominant eye side while firing from their non-dominant
hand side. Soldiers can be trained to fire from either side of the weapon, but
may not be able to shoot effectively using their nondominant eye.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-5

Chapter 7











Incorrect zero – regardless of how well a Soldier aims, if the zero is
incorrect, the round will not travel to the desired point of impact without
adjustment with subsequent rounds (see appendix C of this publication).
Light conditions – limited visibility conditions contribute to errors aligning
the sight, selecting the correct point of aim, or determining the appropriate
hold. Soldiers may offset the effects of low light engagements with image
intensifier (I2) optics, use of thermal optics, or the use of laser pointing
devices with I2 optics.
Battlefield obscurants – smoke, debris, and haze are common conditions on
the battlefield that will disrupt the Soldier’s ability to correctly align their
sights, select the proper point of aim, or determine the correct hold for a
specific target.
Incorrect sight alignment – Soldiers may experience this error when failing
to focus on the front sight post or reticle.
Incorrect sight picture – occurs typically when the threat is in a concealed
location, is moving, or sufficient winds between the shooter and target exist
that are not accounted for during the hold determination process. This failure
directly impacts the Soldier’s ability to create and sustain the proper sight
picture during the shot process.
Improper range determination – will result in an improper hold at ranges
greater than the zeroed range for the weapon.

COMPLEX ENGAGEMENTS
7-14. A complex engagement includes any shot that cannot use the CoVM as the point
of aim to ensure a target hit. Complex engagements require a Soldier to apply various
points of aim to successfully defeat the threat.
7-15. These engagements have an increased level of difficulty due to environmental,
target, or shooter conditions that create a need for the firer to rapidly determine a ballistic
solution and apply that solution to the point of aim. Increased engagement difficulty is
typically characterized by one or more of the following conditions:
 Target conditions:

Range to target.

Moving targets.

Oblique targets.

Evasive targets.

Limited exposure targets.
 Environmental conditions:

Wind.

Angled firing.

Limited visibility.
 Shooter conditions:

Moving firing position.
7-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim



Canted weapon engagements.
CBRN operations engagements.

7-16. Each of these firing conditions may require the Soldier to determine an
appropriate aim point that is not the CoVM. This Soldier calculated aim point is called
the hold. During any complex engagement, the Soldier serves as the ballistic computer
during the shot process. The hold represents a refinement or alteration of the center of
visible mass point of aim at the target to counteract certain conditions during a complex
engagement for—
 Range to target.
 Lead for targets based on their direction and speed of movement.
 Counter-rotation lead required when the Soldier is moving in the opposite
direction of the moving target.
 Wind speed, direction, and duration between the shooter and the target at
ranges greater than 300 meters.
 Greatest lethal zone presented by the target to provide the most probable
point of impact to achieve immediate incapacitation.
7-17. The Soldier will apply the appropriate aim (hold) based on the firing instances
presented. Hold determinations will be discussed in two formats; immediate and
deliberate.
7-18. All Soldiers must be familiar with the immediate hold determination methods.
They should be naturally applied when the engagement conditions require. These
determinations are provided in “target form” measurements, based on a standard E-type
silhouette dimension, approximately 20 inches wide by 40 inches tall.

IMMEDIATE HOLD DETERMINATION
7-19. Immediate holds are based on the values of a “target form,” where the increments
shown are sufficient for rapid target hits without ballistic computations. The immediate
hold determinations are not as accurate as the deliberate method, and are used for
complex target engagements at less than 300 meters.
7-20. Immediate hold locations for azimuth (wind or lead): (See figure 7-4.)

10 January 2017

TC 3-22.9, C1

7-7

Chapter 7

Figure 7-4. Immediate hold locations for windage and lead example

7-21. Immediate hold locations for elevation (range to target): (See figure 7-5.)

7-8

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Aim

Figure 7-5. Immediate hold locations for elevation (range) example

DELIBERATE HOLD DETERMINATION
7-22. Deliberate hold points of aim are derived from applying the appropriate ballistic
math computation. Deliberate hold determinations are required for precise shots beyond
300 meters for wind, extended range, moving, oblique, or evasive targets.
7-23. Deliberate holds for complex engagements are discussed in detail in appendix C,
Complex Engagements. The deliberate math calculations are for advanced shooters
within the formation and are not discussed within this chapter.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-9

Chapter 7

TARGET CONDITIONS
7-24. Soldiers must consider several aspects of the target to apply the proper point of
aim on the target. The target’s posture, or how it is presenting itself to the shooter,
consists of—
 Range to target.
 Nature of the target.
 Nature of the terrain (surrounding the target).

RANGE TO TARGET
7-25. Rapidly determining an accurate range to target is critical to the success of the
Soldier at mid and extended ranges. There are several range determination methods
shooters should be confident in applying to determine the proper hold-off for pending
engagements. There are two types of range determination methods, immediate and
deliberate.

Immediate Range Determination
7-26. Immediate methods of range determination afford the shooter the most reliable
means of determining the most accurate range to a given target. The immediate methods
include—
 Close quarters engagements.
 Laser range finder.
 Front sight post method.
 Recognition method.
 100-meter unit-of-measure method.
Close Quarters Engagements
7-27. Short-range engagements are probable in close terrain (such as urban or jungle)
with engagement ranges typically less than 50 meters. Soldiers must be confident in
their equipment, zero, and capabilities to defeat the threats encountered.
7-28. Employment skills include swift presentation and application of the shot process
(such as quick acquisition of sight picture) to maintain overmatch. At close ranges,
perfect sight alignment is not as critical to the accurate engagement of targets. The
weapon is presented rapidly and the shot is fired with the front sight post placed roughly
center mass on the desired target area. The front sight post must be in the rear sight
aperture.
Note. If using iron sights when this type of engagement is anticipated, the
large rear sight aperture (0-2) should be used to provide a wider field of view
and detection of targets.

7-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim

Laser Range Finder
7-29. Equipment like the AN/PSQ-23, STORM have an on-board laser range finder
that is accurate to within +/- 5 meters. Soldiers with the STORM attached can rapidly
determine the most accurate range to target and apply the necessary hold-offs to ensure
the highest probability of incapacitation, particularly at extended ranges.
Front Sight Post Method
7-30. The area of the target that is covered by the front sight post of the rifle can be
used to estimate range to the target. By comparing the appearance of the rifle front sight
post on a target at known distances, your shooters can establish a mental reference point
for determining range at unknown distances. Because the apparent size of the target
changes as the distance to the target changes, the amount of the target that is covered by
the front sight post will vary depending upon its range. In addition, your shooter’s eye
relief and perception of the front sight post will also affect the amount of the target that
is visible (see figure 7-6).
 Less Than 300 Meters. If the target is wider than the front sight post, you can
assume that the target is less than 300 meters and can be engaged point of
aim/point of impact using your battle sight zero (BZO).
 Greater Than 300 Meters. The service rifle front sight post covers the width
of a man's chest or body at approximately 300 meters. If the target is less
than the width of the front sight post, you should assume the target is in
excess of 300 meters. Therefore, your BZO cannot be used effectively.

Figure 7-6. Front sight post method example
Recognition Method
7-31. When observing a target, the amount of detail seen at various ranges gives the
shooter a solid indication of the range to target. Shooters should study and remember
the appearance of a person when they are standing at 100 meters increments. During
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-11

Chapter 7

training, Soldiers should note the details of size and the characteristics of uniform and
equipment for targets at those increments.
7-32. Once Soldiers are familiar and memorize the characteristics of standing threats at
100 meter increments out to 500 meters, they should study the targets in a kneeling and
then in the prone position. By comparing the appearance of these positions at known
ranges from 100 meters to 500 meters, shooters can establish a series of mental images
that will help determine range on unfamiliar terrain. They should also study the
appearance of other familiar objects such as weapons and vehicles.
 100 meters – the target can be clearly observed in detail, and facial features
can be distinguished.
 200 meters – the target can be clearly observed, although there is a loss of
facial detail. The color of the skin and equipment is still identifiable.
 300 meters – the target has a clear body outline, face color usually remains
accurate, but remaining details are blurred.
 400 meters – the body outline is clear, but remaining detail is blurred.
 500 meters – the body shape begins to taper at the ends. The head becomes
indistinct from the shoulders.
100-meter Unit-of-Measure Method
7-33. To determine the total distance to the target using the 100 meter unit of measure
method, shooters must visualize a distance of 100 meters (generally visualizing the
length of a football field) on the ground. Soldiers then estimate how many of these units
can fit between the shooter and the target.
7-34. The greatest limitation of the unit of measure method is that its accuracy is
directly related to how much of the terrain is visible. This is particularly true at greater
ranges. If a target appears at a range of 500 meters or more and only a portion of the
ground between your shooter and the target can be seen, it becomes difficult to use the
unit of measure method of range estimation with accuracy.
7-35. Proficiency in the unit of measure method requires constant practice. Throughout
training, comparisons should be continually made between the range estimated by your
shooter and the actual range as determined by pacing or other, more accurate
measurement.
Immediate hold for Range to Target
7-36. Immediate range determination holds are based on the zero applied to the weapon.
The 300 meter zero is the Army standard and works in all tactical situations, including
close quarters combat. Figure 7-7, on page 7-13, shows the appropriate immediate holds
for range to target based on the weapon’s respective zero:

7-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim

Figure 7-7. Immediate holds for range to target

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-13

Chapter 7

MOVING TARGETS
7-37. Moving targets are those threats that appear to have a consistent pace and
direction. Targets on any battlefield will not remain stationary for long periods of time,
particularly once a firefight begins. Soldiers must have the ability to deliver lethal fires
at a variety of moving target types and be comfortable and confident in the engagement
techniques. There are two methods for defeating moving targets; tracking and trapping.

Immediate hold for moving targets.
7-38. The immediate hold for moving targets includes an estimation of the speed of the
moving target and an estimation of the range to that target. The immediate holds for all
moving targets are shown below. (See figure 7-8.)

Figure 7-8. Immediate holds for moving targets example

7-14

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim

OBLIQUE TARGETS
7-39. Threats that are moving diagonally toward or away from the shooter are called
oblique targets. They offer a unique problem set to shooters where the target may be
moving at a steady pace and direction; however, their oblique direction of travel makes
them appear to move slower.
7-40. Soldiers should adjust their hold based on the angle of the target’s movement from
the gun-target line. The following guide will help Soldiers determine the appropriate
change to the moving target hold to apply to engage the moving oblique threats (see
figure 7-9).

Figure 7-9. Oblique target example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-15

Chapter 7

ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
7-41. The environment can complicate the shooter’s actions during the shot process
with excessive wind or requiring angled firing limited visibility conditions. Soldiers
must understand the methods to offset or compensate for these firing occasions, and be
prepared to apply these skills to the shot process. This includes when multiple complex
conditions compound the ballistic solution during the firing occasion.

WIND
7-42. Wind is the most common variable and has the greatest effect on ballistic
trajectories, where it physically pushes the projectile during flight off the desired
trajectory (see appendix B of this publication). The effects of wind can be compensated
for by the shooter provided they understand how wind effects the projectile and the
terminal point of impact. The elements of wind effects are—
 The time the projectile is exposed to the wind (range).
 The direction from which the wind is blowing.
 The velocity of the wind on the projectile during flight.

Wind Direction and Value
7-43. Winds from the left blow the projectile to the right, and winds from the right blow
the projectile to the left. The amount of the effect depends on the time of (projectile’s
exposure) the wind speed and direction. To compensate for the wind, the firer must first
determine the wind’s direction and value.
7-44. The clock system can be used to determine the direction and value of the wind
(See figure 7-10 on page 7-17). Picture a clock with the firer oriented downrange
towards 12 o’clock.
7-45. Once the direction is determined, the value of the wind is next. The value of the
wind is how much effect the wind will have on the projectile. Winds from certain
directions have less effect on projectiles. The chart below shows that winds from 2 to
4°o’clock and 8 to 10 o’clock are considered full-value winds and will have the most
effect on the projectile. Winds from 1, 5, 7, and 11 o’clock are considered half-value
winds and will have roughly half the effect of a full-value wind. Winds from 6 and
12°o’clock are considered no-value winds and little or no effect on the projectile.
EXAMPLE
A 10-mph (miles per hour) wind blowing from the 1 o’clock direction would
be a half-value wind and has the same effect as a 5 mph, full-value wind
on the projectile.

7-16

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Aim

Figure 7-10. Wind value
7-46. The wind will push the projectile in the direction the wind is blowing (see
figure 7-11). The amount of effects on the projectile will depend on the time of exposure,
direction of the wind, and speed of the wind. To compensate for wind the Soldier uses a
hold in the direction of the wind (into the wind).

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

7-17

Chapter 7

Figure 7-11. Wind effects

Wind Speed
7-47. Wind speeds can vary from the firing line to the target. Wind speed can be
determined by taking an average of the winds blowing on the range. The firer’s focus
should be on the winds between the midrange point and the target. The wind at the one
half to two thirds mark will have the most effect on the projectile since that is the point
where most projectiles have lost a large portion of their velocity and are beginning to
destabilize.
7-48. The Soldier can observe the movement of items in the environment downrange
to determine the speed. Each environment will have different vegetation that reacts
differently.
7-49. Downrange wind indicators include the following:
 0 to 3 mph = Hardly felt, but smoke drifts.
 3 to 5 mph = Felt lightly on the face.
 5 to 8 mph = Keeps leaves in constant movement.

7-18

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Chapter 7



8 to 12 mph = Raises dust and loose paper.
12 to 15 mph = Causes small trees to sway.

7-50. The wind blowing at the Soldiers location may not be the same as the wind
blowing on the way to the target.

Wind Estimation
7-51. Soldiers must be comfortable and confident in their ability to judge the effects of
the wind to consistently make accurate and precise shots. Soldiers will use wind
indicators between the Soldier and the target that provide windage information to
develop the proper compensation or hold-off.
7-52. To estimate the effects of the wind on the shot, Soldiers need to determine three
windage factors:
 Velocity (speed).
 Direction.
 Value.

Immediate Wind Hold
7-53. Using a hold involves changing the point of aim to compensate for the wind drift.
For example, if wind causes the bullet to drift 1/2 form to the left, the aiming point must
be moved 1/2 form to the right. (See figure 7-12, page 7-20.)

Figure 7-12. Wind hold example
10 January 2017

TC 3-22.9, C1

7-19

Chapter 7

7-54. Firers must adjust their points of aim into the wind to compensate for its effects.
If they miss a distant target and wind is blowing from the right, they should aim to the
right for the next shot. A guide for the initial adjustment is to split the front sight post
on the edge of the target facing the wind.
7-55. Newly assigned Soldiers should aim at the target's center of visible mass for the
first shot, and then adjust for wind when they are confident that wind caused the miss.
Experienced firers should apply the appropriate hold for the first shot, but should follow
the basic rule—when in doubt, aim at the center of mass.

LIMITED VISIBILITY
7-56. Soldiers must be lethal at night and in limited visibility conditions, as well as
during the day. That lethality depends largely on whether Soldier can fire effectively
with today’s technology: night vision devices (NVDs), IR aiming devices, and TWSs.
7-57. Limited visibility conditions may limit the viewable size of a threat, or cause
targets to be lost after acquisition. In these situations, Soldiers may choose to apply a
hold for where a target is expected to be rather than wait for the target to present itself
for a more refined reticle lay or sight picture.
7-58. Soldiers may switch between optics, thermals, and pointers to refine their point
of aim. To rapidly switch between aiming devices during operations in limited visibility,
the Soldier must ensure accurate alignment, boresighting, and zeroing of all associated
equipment. Confidence in the equipment is achieved through drills related to changing
the aiming device during engagements, executing repetitions with multiple pieces of
equipment, and practicing nonstandard engagement techniques using multiple aiming
devices in tandem (IR pointer with NVDs, for example).

10 January 2017

TC 3-22.9, C1

7-20

Chapter 8

Control
The control element of employment considers all the conscious
actions of the Soldier before, during, and after the shot process that
the Soldier’s specifically in control of. It incorporates the Soldier as
a function of safety, as well as the ultimate responsibility of firing
the weapon.
Proper trigger control, without disturbing the sights, is the most
important aspect of control and the most difficult to master.
Combat is the ultimate test of a Soldier's ability to apply the
functional elements of the shot process and firing skills. Soldiers
must apply the employment skills mastered during training to all
combat situations (for example, attack, assault, ambush, or urban
operations). Although these tactical situations present problems, the
application of the functional elements of the shot process require
two additions: changes to the rate of fire and alterations in
weapon/target alignment. This chapter discusses the engagement
techniques Soldiers must adapt to the continuously changing
combat engagements.
8-1. When firing individual weapons, the Soldier is the weapon’s fire control system,
ballistic computer, stabilization system, and means of mobility. Control refers to the
Soldier’s ability to regulate these functions and maintain the discipline to execute the
shot process at the appropriate time.
8-2. Regardless of how well trained or physically strong a Soldier is, a wobble area
(or arc of movement) is present, even when sufficient physical support of the weapon is
provided. The arc of movement (AM) may be observed as the sights moving in a W
shape, vertical (up and down) pulses, circular, or horizontal arcs depending on the
individual Soldier, regardless of their proficiency in applying the functional elements.
The wobble area or arc of movement is the extent of lateral horizontal and front-to-back
variance in the movement that occurs in the sight picture (see figure 8-1).

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

8-1

Chapter 8

Figure 8-1. Arc of movement example
8-3. The control element consists of several supporting Soldier functions, and include
all the actions to minimize the Soldier’s induced arc of movement. Executed correctly,
it provides for the best engagement window of opportunity to the firer. The Soldier
physically maintains positive control of the shot process by managing—
 Trigger control.
 Breathing control.
 Workspace.
 Calling the shot (firing or shot execution).
 Follow-through.

TRIGGER CONTROL
8-4. Trigger control is the act of firing the weapon while maintaining proper aim and
adequate stabilization until the bullet leaves the muzzle. Trigger control and the
shooter’s position work together to allow the sights to stay on the target long enough for
the shooter to fire the weapon and bullet to exit the barrel.
8-5. Stability and trigger control complement each other and are integrated during the
shot process. A stable position assists in aiming and reduces unwanted movements
during trigger squeeze without inducing unnecessary movement or disturbing the sight
picture. A smooth, consistent trigger squeeze, regardless of speed, allows the shot to fire
at the Soldier’s moment of choosing. When both a solid position and a good trigger
squeeze are achieved, any induced shooting errors can be attributed to the aiming
process for refinement.
8-6. Smooth trigger control is facilitated by placing the finger where it naturally lays
on the trigger. Natural placement of the finger on the trigger will allow for the best
mechanical advantage when applying rearward pressure to the trigger.
8-2

TC 3-22.9, C1

10 January 2017

Control






Trigger finger placement – the trigger finger will lay naturally across the
trigger after achieving proper grip (see figure 8-2). There is no specified point
on the trigger finger that must be used. It will not be the same for all Soldiers
due to different size hands. This allows the Soldier to engage the trigger in
the most effective manner
Trigger squeeze – The Soldier pulls the trigger in a smooth consistent
manner adding pressure until the weapon fires. Regardless of the speed at
which the Soldier is firing the trigger control will always be smooth.
Trigger reset – It is important the Soldier retains focus on the sights while
resetting the trigger.

Figure 8-2. Natural trigger finger placement

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

8-3

Chapter 8

BREATHING CONTROL
8-7. During the shot process, the shooter controls their breathing to reduce the amount
of movement of the weapon. During training, the Soldier will learn a method of
breathing control that best suits their shooting style and preference. Breathing control is
the relationship of the respiratory process (free or under stress) and the decision to
execute the shot with trigger squeeze.
8-8. Breathing induces unavoidable body movement that contribute to wobble or the
arc of movement (AM) during the shot process. Soldiers cannot completely eliminate
all motion during the shot process, but they can significantly reduce its effects through
practice and technique. Firing on the natural pause is a common technique used during
grouping and zeroing.
8-9. Vertical dispersion during grouping is most likely not caused by breathing but by
failure to maintain proper aiming and trigger control. Refer to appendix E of this
publication for proper target analysis techniques.

WORKSPACE MANAGEMENT
8-10. The workspace is a spherical area, 12 to 18 inches in diameter centered on the
Soldier’s chin and approximately 12 inches in front of their chin. The workspace is
where the majority of weapons manipulations take place. (See figure 8-3 on page 8-5.)
8-11. Conducting manipulations in the workspace allows the Soldier to keep his eyes
oriented towards a threat or his individual sector of fire while conducting critical
weapons tasks that require hand and eye coordination. Use of the workspace creates
efficiency of motion by minimizing the distance the weapon has to move between the
firing position to the workspace and return to the firing position.
8-12. Location of the workspace will change slightly in different firing positions. There
are various techniques to use the workspace. Some examples are leaving the butt stock
in the shoulder, tucking the butt stock under the armpit for added control of the weapon,
or placing the butt stock in the crook of the elbow.
8-13. Workspace management includes the Soldier’s ability to perform the following
functions:
 Selector lever – to change the weapon’s status from safe to semiautomatic,
to burst/automatic from any position.
Note. Some models will have ambidextrous selectors.





8-4

Charging handle – to smoothly use the charging handle during operation.
This includes any corrective actions to overcome malfunctions, loading,
unloading, or clearing procedures.
Bolt catch – to operate the bolt catch mechanism on the weapon during
operations.
Ejection port – closing the ejection port cover to protect the bolt carrier
assembly, ammunition, and chamber from external debris upon completion
TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Control





of an engagement. This includes observation of the ejection port area during
malfunctions and clearing procedures.
Magazine catch – the smooth functioning of the magazine catch during
reloading procedures, clearing procedures, or malfunction corrective actions.
Chamber check – the sequence used to verify the status of the weapon’s
chamber.
Forward assist – the routine use of the forward assist assembly of the
weapon during loading procedures or when correcting malfunctions.

Figure 8-3. Workspace example

CALLING THE SHOT
8-14. Knowing precisely where the sights are when the weapon discharges is critical
for shot analysis. Errors such as flinching or jerking of the trigger can be seen in the
sights before discharge.
8-15. Calling a shot refers to a firer stating exactly where he thinks a single shot strikes
by recalling the sights relationship to the target when the weapon fired. This is normally
expressed in clock direction and inches from the desired point of aim.
8-16. The shooter is responsible for the point of impact of every round fired from their
weapon. This requires the Soldier to ensure the target area is clear of friendly and neutral
actors, in front of and behind the target. Soldiers must also be aware of the environment
the target is positioned in, particularly in urban settings—friendly or neutral actors may
be present in other areas of a structure that the projectile can pass through.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

8-5

Chapter 8

RATE OF FIRE
8-17. The shooter must determine how to engage the threat with the weapon, on the
current shot as well as subsequent shots. Following the direction of the team leader, the
Soldier controls the rate of fire to deliver consistent, lethal, and precise fires against the
threat.

SLOW SEMIAUTOMATIC FIRE
8-18. Slow semiautomatic fire is moderately paced at the discretion of the Soldier,
typically used in a training environment or a secure defensive position at approximately
12 to 15 rounds per minute. All Soldiers learn the techniques of slow semiautomatic fire
during their introduction to the service rifle during initial entry training. This type of
firing provides the Soldier the most time to focus on the functional elements in the shot
process and reinforces all previous training.

RAPID SEMIAUTOMATIC FIRE
8-19. Rapid semiautomatic fire is approximately 45 rounds per minute and is typically
used for multiple targets or combat scenarios where the Soldier does not have overmatch
of the threat. Soldiers should be well-trained in all aspects of slow semiautomatic firing
before attempting any rapid semiautomatic fire training.
8-20. Those who display a lack of knowledge of employment skills should not advance
to rapid semiautomatic fire training until these skills are learned and mastered.

AUTOMATIC OR BURST FIRE
8-21. Automatic or burst fire is when the Soldier is required to provide suppressive fires
with accuracy, and the need for precise fires, although desired, is not as important.
Automatic or burst fires drastically decrease the probability of hit due to the rapid
succession of recoil impulses and the inability of the Soldier to maintain proper sight
alignment and sight picture on the target.
8-22. Soldiers should be well-trained in all aspects of slow semiautomatic firing before
attempting any automatic training.

8-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Control

FOLLOW-THROUGH
8-23. Follow-through is the continued mental and physical application of the functional
elements of the shot process after the shot has been fired. The firer’s head stays in contact
with the stock, the firing eye remains open, the trigger finger holds the trigger back
through recoil and then lets off enough to reset the trigger, and the body position and
breathing remain steady.
8-24. Follow-through consists of all actions controlled by the shooter after the bullet
leaves the muzzle. It is required to complete the shot process. These actions are executed
in a general sequence:
 Recoil management. This includes the bolt carrier group recoiling
completely and returning to battery.
 Recoil recovery. Returning to the same pre-shot position and reacquiring the
sight picture. The shooter should have a good sight picture before and after
the shot.
 Trigger/Sear reset. Once the ejection phase of the cycle of function is
complete, the weapon initiates and completes the cocking phase. As part of
the cocking phase, all mechanical components associated with the trigger,
disconnect, and sear are reset. Any failures in the cocking phase indicate a
weapon malfunction and require the shooter to take the appropriate action.
The shooter maintains trigger finger placement and releases pressure on the
trigger until the sear is reset, demonstrated by a metallic click. At this point
the sear is reset and the trigger pre-staged for a subsequent or supplemental
engagement if needed.
 Sight picture adjustment. Counteracting the physical changes in the sight
picture caused by recoil impulses and returning the sight picture onto the
target aiming point.
 Engagement assessment. Once the sight picture returns to the original point
of aim, the firer confirms the strike of the round, assesses the target’s state,
and immediately selects one of the following courses of action:

Subsequent engagement. The target requires additional (subsequent)
rounds to achieve the desired target effect. The shooter starts the preshot process.

Supplemental engagement. The shooter determines the desired target
effect is achieved and another target may require servicing. The shooter
starts the pre-shot process.

Sector check. All threats have been adequately serviced to the desired
effect. The shooter then checks his sector of responsibility for additional
threats as the tactical situation dictates. The unit’s SOP will dictate any
vocal announcements required during the post-shot sequence.

Correct Malfunction. If the firer determines during the follow-through
that the weapon failed during one of the phases of the cycle of function,
they make the appropriate announcement to their team and immediately
execute corrective action.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

8-7

Chapter 8

MALFUNCTIONS
8-25. When any weapon fails to complete any phase of the cycle of function correctly,
a malfunction has occurred. When a malfunction occurs, the Soldier’s priority remains
to defeat the target as quickly as possible. The malfunction, Soldier capability, and
secondary weapon capability determine if, when, and how to transition to a secondary
weapon system.
8-26. The Soldier controls which actions must be taken to ensure the target is defeated
as quickly as possible based on secondary weapon availability and capability, and the
level of threat presented by the range to target and its capability:
 Secondary weapon can defeat the threat. Soldier transitions to secondary
weapon for the engagement. If no secondary weapon is available, announce
their status to the small team, and move to a covered position to correct the
malfunction.
 Secondary weapon cannot defeat the threat. Soldiers quickly move to a
covered position, announce their status to the small team, and execute
corrective action.
 No secondary weapon. Soldiers quickly move to a covered position,
announce their status to the small team, and execute corrective action.
8-27. The end state of any of corrective action is a properly functioning weapon.
Typically, the phase where the malfunction occurred within the cycle of function
identifies the general problem that must be corrected. From a practical, combat
perspective, malfunctions are recognized by their symptoms. Although some symptoms
do not specifically identify a single point of failure, they provide the best indication on
which corrective action to apply.
8-28. To overcome the malfunction, the Soldier must first avoid over analyzing the
issue. The Soldier must train to execute corrective actions immediately without
hesitation or investigation during combat conditions.
8-29. There are two general types of corrective action:
 Immediate action – simple, rapid actions or motions taken by the Soldier to
correct basic disruptions in the cycle of function of the weapon. Immediate
action is taken when a malfunction occurs such that the trigger is squeeze and
the hammer falls with an audible “click.”
 Remedial action – a skilled, technique that must be applied to a specific
problem or issue with the weapon that will not be corrected by taking
immediate action. Remedial action is taken when the cycle of function is
interrupted where the trigger is squeezed and either has little resistance during
the squeeze (“mush”) or the trigger cannot be squeezed.
8-30. No single corrective action solution will resolve all or every malfunction. Soldiers
need to understand what failed to occur, as well as any specific sounds or actions of the
weapon in order to apply the appropriate correction measures.

8-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Control

8-31. Immediate action can correct rudimentary failures during the cycle of function:
 Failure to fire – is when a round is locked into the chamber, the weapon is
ready to fire, the select switch is placed on SEMI or BURST / AUTO, and
the trigger is squeezed, the hammer falls (audible click), and the weapon does
not fire.
 Failure to feed – is when the bolt carrier assembly is expected to move return
back into battery but is prevented from moving all the way forward. A clear
gap can be seen between the bolt carrier assembly and the forward edge of
the ejection port. This failure may cause a stove pipe or a double feed (see
below).
 Failure to chamber – when the round is being fed into the chamber, but the
bolt carrier assembly does not fully seat forward, failing to chamber the round
and lock the bolt locking lugs with the barrel extension’s corresponding lugs.
 Failure to extract – when either automatically or manually, the extractor
loses its grip on the cartridge case or the bolt seizes movement rearward
during extraction that leaves the cartridge case partially removed or fully
seated.
 Failure to eject – occurs when, either automatically or manually, a cartridge
case is extracted from the chamber fully, but does not leave the upper receiver
through the ejection port.
8-32. Remedial action requires the Soldier to quickly identify one of four issues and
apply a specific technique to correct the malfunction. Remedial action is required to
correct the following types of malfunctions or symptoms:
 Immediate action fails to correct symptom – when a malfunction occurred
that initiated the Soldier to execute immediate action and multiple attempts
failed to correct the malfunction. A minimum of two cycles of immediate
action should have been completed; first, without a magazine change, and the
second with a magazine change.
 Stove pipe – can occur when either a feeding cartridge or an expended
cartridge case is pushed sideways during the cycle of function causing that
casing to stop the forward movement of the bolt carrier assembly and lodge
itself between the face of the bolt and the ejection port.
 Double feed – occurs when a round is chambered and not fired and a
subsequent round is being fed without the chamber being clear.
 Bolt override – is when the bolt fails to push a new cartridge out of the
magazine during feeding or chambering, causing the bolt to ride on top of the
cartridge.
 Charging handle impingement – when a round becomes stuck between the
bolt assembly and the charging handle where the charging handle is not in
the forward, locked position.
8-33. Although there are other types of malfunctions or disruptions to the cycle of
function, those listed above are the most common. Any other malfunction will require
additional time to determine the true point of failure and an appropriate remedy.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

8-9

Chapter 8

Note. When malfunctions occur in combat, the Soldier must announce
STOPPAGE or another similar term to their small unit, quickly move to a
covered location, and correct the malfunction as rapidly as possible. If the
threat is too close to the Soldier or friendly forces, and the Soldier has a
secondary weapon, the Soldier should immediately transition to secondary to
defeat the target prior to correcting the malfunction.

RULES FOR CORRECTING A MALFUNCTION
8-34. To clear a malfunction, the Soldier must—
 Apply Rule #1. Soldiers must remain coherent of their weapon and continue
to treat their weapon as if it is loaded when correcting malfunctions.
 Apply Rule #2. Soldiers must ensure the weapon’s orientation is appropriate
for the tactical situation and not flag other friendly forces when correcting
malfunctions.
 Apply Rule #3. Take the trigger finger off the trigger, keep it straight along
the lower receiver placed outside of the trigger guard.
 Do not attempt to place the weapon on SAFE (unless otherwise noted).
Most stoppages will not allow the weapon to be placed on safe because the
sear has been released or the weapon is out of battery. Attempting to place
the weapon on SAFE will waste time and potentially damage the weapon.
 Treat the symptom. Each problem will have its own specific symptoms. By
reacting to what the weapon is “telling” the Soldier, they will be able to
quickly correct the malfunction.
 Maintain focus on the threat. The Soldier must keep their head and eyes
looking downrange at the threat, not at the weapon. If the initial corrective
action fails to correct the malfunction, the Soldier must be able to quickly
move to the next most probable corrective action.
 Look last. Do not look and analyze the weapon to determine the cause of the
malfunction. Execute the drill that has the highest probability of correcting
the malfunction.
 Check the weapon. Once the malfunction is clear and the threat is
eliminated, deliberately check the weapon when in a covered location for any
potential issues or contributing factors that caused the malfunction and
correct them.

8-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Control

Perform Immediate Action
8-35. To perform immediate action, the Soldier instinctively:
 Hears the hammer fall with an audible “click.”
 Taps the bottom of the magazine firmly.
 Rapidly pulls the charging handle and releases to extract / eject the previous
cartridge and feed, chamber, and lock a new round.
 Reassess by continuing the shot process.
Note. If a malfunction continues to occur with the same symptoms, the
Soldier will remove the magazine and insert a new loaded magazine, then
repeat the steps above.

Perform Remedial Action
8-36. To perform remedial action, the Soldier must have a clear understanding of where
the weapon failed during the cycle of function. Remedial action executed when one of
the following conditions exist:
 Immediate action does not work after two attempts.
 The trigger refuses to be squeezed.
 The trigger feels like “mush” when squeezed.
8-37. When one of these three symptoms exist, the Soldier looks into the chamber area
through the ejection port to quickly assess the type of malfunction. Once identified, the
Soldier executes actions to “reduce” the symptom by removing the magazine and
attempting to clear the weapon. Once complete, visually inspect the chamber area, bolt
face, and charging handle. Then, complete the actions for the identified symptom:
 Stove pipe – Grasp case and attempt to remove, cycle weapon and attempt to
fire. If this fails, pull charging handle to the rear while holding case.
 Double-feed - the Soldier must remove the magazine, clear the weapon,
confirm the chamber area is clear, secure a new loaded magazine into the
magazine well, and chamber and lock a round.
 Bolt override – Remove magazine. Pull charging handle as far rearward as
possible. Strike charging handle forward. If this fails, pull charging handle to
the rear a second time, use tool or finger to hold the bolt to the rear, sharply
send charging handle forward.

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

8-11

Chapter 8

CORRECTING MALFUNCTIONS
8-38. Figure 8-4 below provides a simple mental flow chart to rapidly overcome
malfunctions experienced during the shot process.

Figure 8-4. Malfunction corrective action flow chart

8-12

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Control

COOK-OFF
8-39. Rapid and continuous firing of several magazines in sequence without cooling,
will severely elevate chamber temperatures. While unlikely this elevated temperature
may cause a malfunction known as a "cook-off". A “cook-off” may occur while the
round is locked in the chamber, due to excessive heating of the ammunition. Or the rapid
exposure to the cooler air outside of the chamber, due in part to the change in pressure.
8-40. If the Soldier determines that he has a potential “cook-off” situation he should
leave the weapon directed at the target, or in a known safe direction, and follow proper
weapons handling procedures, until the barrel of the weapon has had time to cool. If the
chambered round has not been locked in the chamber for 10 seconds, it should be ejected
as quickly as possible. If the length of time is questionable or known to be longer than
10 seconds and it is tactically sound, the Soldier should follow the above procedures
until the weapon is cooled. If it is necessary to remove the round before the weapon has
time to cool, the Soldier should do so with care as the ejected round may detonate due
to rapid cooling in open air.

WARNING
Ammunition “cook-off” is not likely in well
maintained weapons used within normal training
and combat parameters.
Soldiers and unit leadership need to consider the
dangers of keeping rounds chambered in
weapons that have elevated temperatures due to
excessive firing. Or clearing ammunition that has
the potential to cook-off when exposed to the
cooler air outside of the chamber.
Exposure to the colder air outside of the chamber
has the potential to cause the “cook-off” of
ammunition. Keeping ammunition chambered in
severely elevated temperatures also has the
potential to cause the “cook-off” of ammunition.

Note. For more information about troubleshooting malfunctions and
replacing components, see organizational and direct support maintenance
publications and manuals.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

8-13

Chapter 8

TRANSITION TO SECONDARY WEAPON
8-41. A secondary weapon, such as a pistol, is the most efficient way to engage a target
at close quarters when the primary weapon has malfunctioned. The Soldier controls
which actions must be taken to ensure the target is defeated as quickly as possible based
on the threat presented.
8-42. The firer transitions by taking the secondary weapon from the HANG or
HOLSTERED position to the READY UP position, reacquiring the target, and resuming
the shot process as appropriate.
8-43. Refer to the appropriate secondary weapon’s training publications for the specific
procedures to complete the transition process.

8-14

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Chapter 9

Movement
The movement functional element is the process of the Soldier
moving tactically during the engagement process. It includes the
Soldier’s ability to move laterally, forward, diagonally, and in a
retrograde manner while maintaining stabilization, appropriate aim,
and control of the weapon.
Proper application of the shot process during movement is vital to
combat operations. The most complex engagements involve
movement of both Soldier and the adversary. The importance of
sight alignment and trigger control are at their highest during
movement. The movement of the Solider degrades stability, the
ability to aim, and creates challenges to proper trigger control.

MOVEMENT TECHNIQUES
9-1. Tactical movement of the Soldier is classified in two ways: vertical and
horizontal. Each require specific considerations to maintain and adequately apply the
other functional elements during the shot process.
9-2. Vertical movements are those actions taken to change their firing posture or
negotiate terrain or obstacles while actively seeking, orienting on, or engaging threats.
Vertical movements include actions taken to—
 Change between any of the primary firing positions; standing, crouched,
kneeling, sitting, or prone.
 Negotiate stairwells in urban environments.
 Travel across inclined or descending surfaces, obstacles, or terrain.
9-3. Horizontal movements are actions taken to negotiate the battlefield while
actively seeking, orienting on, or engaging threats. There are eight horizontal movement
techniques while maintaining weapon orientation on the threat—
 Forward – movement in a direction directly toward the adversary.
 Retrograde – movement rearward, in a direction away from the threat while
maintaining weapon orientation on the threat.
 Lateral right/left – lateral, diagonal, forward, or retrograde movement to
the right or left.
 Turning left/right/about – actions taken by the Soldier to change the
weapon orientation left/right or to the rear, followed by the Soldier’s
direction of travel turning to the same orientation.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

9-1

Chapter 9

FORWARD MOVEMENT
9-4. Forward movement is continued progress in a direction toward the adversary or
route of march. This is the most basic form of movement during an engagement.

TECHNIQUE
9-5.

During forward movement,—
 Roll the foot heel to toe to best provide a stable firing platform.
 Shooting while moving should be very close to the natural walking gait and
come directly from the position obtained while stationary.
 Keep the weapon at the ready position. Always maintain awareness of the
surroundings, both to your left and right, at all times during movement.
 Maintain an aggressive position.
 The feet should almost fall in line during movement. This straight-line
movement will reduce the arc of movement and visible “bouncing” of the
sight picture.
 Keep the muzzle of the weapon facing down range toward the expected or
detected threat.
 Keep the hips as stationary as possible. Use the upper body as a turret,
twisting at the waist, maintaining proper platform with the upper body.

RETROGRADE MOVEMENT
9-6. Retrograde movement is where the orientation of the weapon remains to the
Soldier’s front while the Soldier methodically moves rearward.

TECHNIQUE
9-7.

During retrograde movement, the Soldier should—
Take only one or two steps that will open the distance or reposition the feet.
 Place the feet in a toe to heel manner and drop the center body mass by
consciously bending the knees, using a reverse combat glide.
 Maintain situational awareness of team members, debris, and terrain.
 Use the knees as a shock absorber to steady the body movement to maintain
the stability of the upper body, stabilizing the rifle sight(s) on the target.
 Ensure all movement is smooth and steady to maintain stability.
 Bend forward at the waist to put as much mass as possible behind the weapon
for recoil management.
 Keep the muzzle oriented downrange toward the expected or detected threat.
 Keep the hips as stationary as possible. Use the upper body as a turret,
twisting at the waist, maintaining proper platform with the upper body.


9-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Movement

LATERAL MOVEMENT
9-8. Lateral movement is where the Soldier maintains weapon orientation downrange
at the expected or detected threat while moving to the left or right. In the most extreme
cases, the target will be offset 90 degrees or more from the direction of movement.

TECHNIQUE
9-9. During lateral movement, Soldiers should—
 Place their feet heel to toe and drop their center mass by consciously bending
the knees.
 Use the knees as a shock absorber to steady the body movement to maintain
the stability of the upper body, stabilizing the rifle sight(s) on the target.
 Ensure all movement is smooth and steady to maintain stability.
 Bend forward at the waist to put as much mass as possible behind the weapon
for recoil management.
 Roll the foot, heel to toe, as you place the foot on the ground and lift it up
again to provide for the smoothest motion possible.
 Keep the weapon at the alert or ready carry. Do not aim in on the target until
ready to engage.
 Maintain awareness of the surroundings, both to the left and right, at all times
during movement.
 Trigger control when moving is based on the wobble area. The Soldier shoots
when the sights are most stable, not based on foot position.
 Keep the muzzle of the weapon facing down range toward the threat.
 When moving, the placement of the feet should be heel to toe.
 Do not overstep or cross the feet, because this can decrease the Soldier’s
balance and center of gravity.
 Keep the hips as stationary as possible. Use the upper body as a turret,
twisting at the waist, maintaining proper platform with the upper body.
Note. It is more difficult to engage adversaries to the firing side while moving
laterally. The twist required to achieve a full 90-degree offset requires proper
repetitive training. The basic concept of movement must be maintained, from
foot placement to platform.
Twisting at the waist will not allow the weapon to be brought to a full
90 degrees off the direction of travel, especially with nonadjustable butt
stocks. The Soldier will need to drop the non-firing shoulder and roll the
upper body toward the nonfiring side. This will cause the weapon and upper
body to cant at approximately a 45-degree angle, relieving some tension in
the abdominal region, allowing the Soldier to gain a few more degrees of
offset.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

9-3

Chapter 9

TURNING MOVEMENT
9-10. Turning movement are used to engage widely dispersed targets in the oblique and
on the flanks. Turning skills are just as valuable in a rapidly changing combat
environment as firing on the move (such as lateral movement) skills are and should only
be used with the alert carry.
9-11. It does not matter which direction the Soldier is turning or which side is the
Soldier’s strong side. The Soldier must maintain the weapon at an exaggerated low-alert
carry for the duration of the turn.
9-12. Muzzle awareness must be maintained at all times. Ensure that the muzzle does
not begin to come up on target the body is completely turned toward the threat.
9-13. When executing a turn to either side, the Soldier will—
 Look first. Turn head to the direction of the turn first.
 Weapon follows the eyes. The Soldier moves the weapon smoothly to where
the eyes go.
 Follow with the body. The body will begin movement with the movement
of the weapon. Soldiers finish the body movement smoothly to maintain the
best possible stability for the weapon.
 Maintain situational awareness. The Soldier must be completely aware of
the surrounding terrain, particularly for tripping hazards. When necessary,
Soldiers should visually check their surroundings during the turning action
and return their vision to the target area as quickly as possible.

9-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Appendix A

Ammunition
Appendix A discusses the characteristics and capabilities of the
different ammunition available for the M4- and M16-series
weapons. It also includes general ammunition information such as
packaging, standard and North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) marking conventions, the components of ammunition, and
general principles of operation. The information within this
appendix is 5.56mm for the M4- and M16-series weapons only.

SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION CARTRIDGES
A-1. Ammunition for use in rifles and carbines is described as a cartridge. A small
arms cartridge (see figure A-1) is an assembly consisting of a cartridge case, a primer, a
quantity of propellant, and a bullet. The following terminology describe the general
components of all small arms ammunition (SAA) cartridges:
 Cartridge case. The cartridge case is a brass, rimless, center-fire case that
provides a means to hold the other components of the cartridge.
 Propellant. The propellant (or powder) provides the energy to propel the
projectile through the barrel and downrange towards a target through
combustion.
 Primer. The primer is a small explosive charge that provides an ignition
source for the propellant.
 Bullet. The bullet or projectile is the only component that travels to the target.
Note. Dummy cartridges are composed of a cartridge case and bullet, with no
primer or propellant. Some dummy cartridges contain inert granular materials
to simulate the weight and balance of live cartridges.

Figure A-1. Small arms ammunition cartridges

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-1

Appendix A

A-2. There are multiple types of bullets used for various purposes. These include ball,
tracer, armor-piercing, blank, special ball long range (LR), dummy, and short range
training.
A-3. The cartridge case is made of steel, aluminum, or a brass combination (70 percent
copper and 30 percent zinc) for military use. The M4- and M16-series weapons is a
rimless cartridge case that provides an extraction groove (shown in figure A-2). These
cartridge cases are designed to support center-fire operation.
A-4. Center-fire cases have a centrally located primer well/pocket in the base of the
case, which separates the primer from the propellant in the cartridge case. These cases
are designed to withstand pressures generated during firing and are used for most small
arms.
A-5. All 5.56mm ammunition uses the rimless cartridge case. A rimless cartridge is
where the rim diameter is the same as the case body, and uses an extractor groove to
facilitate the cycle of functioning. This design allows for the stacking of multiple
cartridges in a magazine.
A-6. When the round is fired, the cartridge case assists in containing the burning
propellant by expanding the cartridge case tightly to the chamber walls to provide rear
obturation.

Figure A-2. Cartridge case

A-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

PROPELLANT
A-7. Cartridges are loaded with various propellant weights that impart sufficient
velocity, within safe pressure, to obtain the required ballistic projectile performance.
The propellants are either a single-base (nitrocellulose) or double-base (nitrocellulose
and nitroglycerine) composition.
A-8. The propellant (see figure A-3) may be a single-cylindrical or multipleperforation, a ball, or a flake design to facilitate rapid burning. Most propellants are
coated to assist the control of the combustion rate. A final graphite coating facilitates
propellant flow and eliminates static electricity in loading the cartridge.

Figure A-3. Propellant

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-3

Appendix A

PRIMER
A-9. Center-fire small arms cartridges contain a percussion primer assembly. The
assembly consists of a brass or gilding metal cup (see figure A-4). The cup contains a
pellet of sensitive explosive material secured by a paper disk and a brass anvil.
A-10. The weapon firing pin striking the center of the primer cup base compresses the
primer composition between the cup and the anvil. This causes the composition to
explode. Holes or vents located in the anvil or closure cup allow the flame to pass
through the primer vent, igniting the propellant.

Figure A-4. 5.56mm primer detail

A-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

BULLET
A-11. The bullet is a cylindrically shaped lead or alloy projectile that engages with the
rifling of the barrel. Newer projectiles consist of a copper slug with exposed steel
penetrator, as with the M855A1. The bullets used today are either lead (lead alloy), or
assemblies of a jacket and a lead or steel core penetrator. The lead used in lead-alloy
bullets is combined with tin, antimony or both for bullet hardness. The alloying reduces
barrel leading and helps prevent the bullet from striping (jumping) the rifling during
firing.
A-12. Jacketed bullets (see figure A-5) are used to obtain high velocities and are better
suited for semiautomatic and automatic weapons. A bullet jacket may be either gilding
metal, gilding metal-clad steel, or copper plated steel. In addition to a lead or steel core,
they may contain other components or chemicals that provide a terminal ballistic
characteristic for the bullet type.
A-13. Some projectiles may be manufactured from plastic, wax, or plastic binder and
metal powder, two or more metal powders, or various combinations based on the
cartridge’s use.

Figure A-5. Bullet example, Armor-piercing cartridge

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-5

Appendix A

SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION TYPES
A-14. There are seven types of SAA for the M4- and M16-series weapons that are used
for training and combat. Each of these ammunition types provides a different capability
and have specific characteristics. The following are the most common types of
ammunition for the rifle and carbine:

BALL
A-15. The ball cartridge (see figure A-6) is intended for use in rifles and carbines against
personnel and unarmored targets. The bullet, as designed for general purpose combat
and training requirements, normally consists of a metal jacket and a lead slug.

Figure A-6. Ball cartridge

TRACER (TCR OR T)
A-16. A tracer round contains a pyrotechnic composition in the base of the bullet to
permit visible observation of the bullet’s in-flight path or trajectory and point of impact.
(See figure A-7) The pyrotechnic composition is ignited by the propellant when the
round is fired, emitting a bright flame visible by the firer. Tracer rounds may also be
used to pinpoint enemy targets to ignite flammable materials and for signaling purposes.

Figure A-7. Ball with tracer cartridge

A-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

ARMOR PIERCING (AP)
A-17. The armor-piercing cartridge (see figure A-8) is intended for use against
personnel and light armored and unarmored targets, concrete shelters, and similar bulletresistant targets. The bullet consists of a metal jacket and a hardened steel-alloy core. In
addition, it may have a lead base filler and/or a lead point filler.

Figure A-8. Armor-piercing cartridge

SHORT RANGE TRAINING AMMUNITION
A-18. The short range training ammunition (SRTA) (see figure A-9) cartridges are
designed for target practice where the maximum range is reduced for training purposes.
This cartridge ballistically matches the ball cartridge out to 300 meters, and rapidly
drops in velocity and accuracy. This allows for installations with restricted training
range facilities to continue to operate with accurate munitions. This cartridge is also a
preferred round when conducting training in a close quarters environment, like a shoot
house or other enclosed training facility.

Figure A-9. Short range training ammunition cartridge

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-7

Appendix A

BLANK (BLK)
A-19. The blank cartridge (see figure A-10) is distinguished by the absence of a bullet
or projectile. It is used for simulated fire, in training maneuvers, and for ceremonial
purposes. These rounds consist of a roll crimp (knurl) or cannelure on the body of the
case, which holds a paper wad in place instead of a projectile. Newer cartridges have
rosette crimp (7 petals) and an identification knurl on the cartridge case.

Figure A-10. Blank cartridge

CLOSE COMBAT MISSION CAPABILITY KIT
A-20. The close combat mission capability kit (CCMCK) cartridge (see figure A-11) is
used for training purposes only.
A-21. The M4 carbine/M16 rifle conversion adapter kit provides utmost safety, inservice reliability and maintainability. The kit is easy to install with a simple exchange
of the bolt. It adapts the host weapon to fire unlinked 5.56mm M1042 man-marking
ammunition with the feel and function of live ammunition. The kit includes fail-safe
measures to prevent the discharge of a standard “live” round.

Figure A-11. Close combat mission capability kit cartridge

A-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

DUMMY
A-22. The dummy cartridge (see figure A-12) is used for practice in loading weapons
and simulated firing to detect errors in employment skills when firing weapons. This
round is completely inert and consists only of an empty cartridge case and ball bullet.
Cartridge identification is by means of holes through the side of the case or longitudinal
corrugations in the case and by the empty primer pocket.

Figure A-12. Dummy cartridge

COLORS, MARKINGS, AND SYMBOLS
A-23. Small arms ammunition is identifiable by color coding specification per type and
intended use. Table A-1 describes the general color codes for all types of 5.56mm small
arms ammunition. Table A-2 identifies the color code specifications that are applied to
the tip of 5.56mm ammunition.
A-24. Markings stenciled or stamped on munitions or their containers include all
information needed for complete identification.
A-25. Packaging and containers for small arms ammunition are clearly marked with
standard NATO symbols identifying the contents of the package by type of ammunition,
primary use, and packaging information. The most common NATO symbols are
described according to Standardization Agreement (STANAG) (see table A-2 on page
A-11).
A-26. Small arms ammunition (less than 20mm) is not color-coded under
MIL-STD-709D. Marking standards for small arms ammunition are outlined in—
 TM 9-1305-201-20&P.
 TM 9-1300-200.
A-27. These publications describe the color coding system for small arms projectiles.
The bullet tips are painted a distinctive color as a ready means of identification for the
user. (Refer to TM 9-1300-200 for more information.)

10 January 2017

TC 3-22.9, C1

A-9

Appendix A

Table A-1. Small Arms Color Coding and Packaging Markings

5.56-MM AMMUNITION
A-28. The following tables A-2 through A-10 on pages A-10 through A-18, will provide
a brief description of the ten different types of commonly used 5.56mm ammunition for
training and combat. Some types of 5.56mm ammunition will have more than one
applicable Department of Defense Identification Code (DODIC); those DODICs are
provided for the clarity and ease of the unit’s ammunition resource manager.

A-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

Table A-2. 5-56mm, M855, Ball

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-11

Appendix A

Table A-3. 5.56mm, M855A1, Enhanced Performance Round (EPR), Ball

A-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

Table A-4. 5.56mm, M856A1, Tracer

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-13

Appendix A

Table A-5. 5.56mm, Mk301, MOD 0, DIM Tracer

A-14

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

Table A-6. 5.56mm, M995, Armor Piercing

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-15

Appendix A

Table A-7. 5.56mm, M862, Short Range Training Ammunition

A-16

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

Table A-8. 5.56mm, M1037, Short Range Training Ammunition

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-17

Appendix A

Table A-9. 5.56mm, M1042 Close Combat Mission Capability Kit

A-18

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ammunition

Table A-10. 5.56mm, M200, Blank

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

A-19

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix B

Ballistics
Ballistics is the science of the processes that occur from the time a
firearm is fired to the time when the bullet impacts its target.
Soldiers must be familiar with the principles of ballistics as they are
critical in understanding how the projectiles function, perform
during flight, and the actions of the bullet when it strikes the
intended target. The profession of arms requires Soldiers to
understand their weapons, how they operate, their functioning, and
their employment.
B-1. The flight path of a bullet includes three stages: the travel down the barrel, the
path through the air to the target, and the actions the bullet takes upon impact with the
target. These stages are defined in separate categories of ballistics; internal, external,
and terminal ballistics.

INTERNAL BALLISTICS
B-2. Internal ballistics – is the study of the propulsion of a projectile. Internal
ballistics begin from the time the firing pin strikes the primer to the time the bullet leaves
the muzzle. Once the primer is struck the priming charge ignites the propellant. The
expanding gases caused by the burning propellant create pressures which push the bullet
down the barrel. The bullet engages the lands and grooves (rifling) imparting a spin on
the bullet that facilitates stabilization of the projectile during flight. Internal ballistics
ends at shot exit, where the bullet leaves the muzzle. (See figure B-1.)

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

B-1

Appendix B

Figure B-1. Internal ballistic terms
B-3. Several key terms are used when discussing the physical actions of internal
ballistics —
 Bore – the interior portion of the barrel forward of the chamber.
 Chamber – the part of the barrel that accepts the ammunition for firing.
 Grain (gr) – a unit of measurement of either a bullet or a projectile. There
are 7000 grains in a pound, or 437.5 grains per ounce.
 Pressure – the force developed by the expanding gasses generated by the
combustion (burning) of the propellant. Pressure is measure in pounds per
square inch (psi).
 Shoulder – the area of the chamber that contains the shoulder, forcing the
cartridge and projectile into the entrance of the bore at the throat of the barrel.
 Muzzle – the end of the barrel.
 Throat – the entrance to the barrel from the chamber. Where the projectile
is introduced to the lands and grooves within the barrel.

B-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ballistics

EXTERNAL BALLISTICS
B-4. External ballistics is the study of the physical actions and effects of gravity, drag,
and wind along the projectile’s flight to the target. It includes only those general physical
actions that cause the greatest change to the flight of a projectile. (See figure B-2.)
External ballistics begins at shot exit and continues through the moment the projectile
strikes the target.

Figure B-2. External ballistic terms
B-5. The following terms and definitions are used to describe the actions or reactions
of the projectile during flight. This terminology is standard when dealing with any
weapon or weapon system, regardless of caliber. (See figure B-3.)
 Axis of the bore (Line of Bore) – the line passing through the center of the
bore or barrel.
 Line of sight (LOS) or gun target line (GTL) – a straight line between the
sights or optics and the target. This is never the same as the axis of the bore.
The LOS is what the Soldier sees through the sights and can be illustrated by
drawing an imaginary line from the firer’s eye through the rear and front
sights out to infinity. The LOS is synonymous with the GTL when viewing
the relationship of the sights to a target.
 Line of elevation (LE) – the angle represented from the ground to the axis
of the bore.
 Ballistic trajectory – the path of a projectile when influenced only by
external forces, such as gravity and atmospheric friction.
 Maximum ordinate – the maximum height the projectile will travel above
the line of sight on its path to the point of impact.
 Time of flight – the time taken for a specific projectile to reach a given
distance after firing.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

B-3

Appendix B

Figure B-3. Trajectory


















B-4

Jump – vertical jump in an upward and rearward direction caused by recoil.
Typically, it is the angle, measured in mils, between the line of departure and
the line of elevation.
Line of departure (LD) – the line the projectile is on at shot exit.
Muzzle – the end of the barrel.
Muzzle velocity or velocity – the velocity of the projectile measured at shot
exit. Muzzle velocity decreases over time due to air resistance. For small
arms ammunition, velocity (V) is represented in feet per second (f/s).
Twist rate – the rotation of the projectile within the barrel of a rifled weapon
based on the distance to complete one revolution. The twist rate relates to the
ability to gyroscopically spin-stabilize a projectile on rifled barrels,
improving its aerodynamic stability and accuracy. The twist rate of the M4or M16-series weapon is a right hand, one revolution in every seven inches
of barrel length (or R 1:7 inches).
Shot exit – the moment the projectile clears the muzzle of the barrel, where
the bullet is not supported by the barrel.
Oscillation – the movement of the projectile in a circular pattern around its
axis during flight.
Drift – the lateral movement of a projectile during its flight caused by its
rotation or spin.
Yaw – a deviation from stable flight by oscillation. This can be caused by
cross wind or destabilization when the projectile enters or exits a transonic
stage.
Grain (gr) – a unit of measurement of either a bullet or a propellant charge.
There are 7000 grains in a pound, or 437.5 grains per ounce.
Pressure – the force developed by the expanding gases generated by the
combustion (burning) of the propellant. For small arms, pressure is measured
in pounds per square inch (psi).
Gravity – the constant pressure of the earth on a projectile at a rate of about
9.8 meters per second squared, regardless of the projectile’s weight, shape or
velocity. Commonly referred to as bullet drop, gravity causes the projectile
to drop from the line of departure. Soldiers must understand the effects of
gravity on the projectile when zeroing as well as how it applies to
determining the appropriate hold-off at ranges beyond the zero distance.
TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ballistics






Drag (air resistance) – the friction that slows the projectile down while
moving through the air. Drag begins immediately upon the projectile exiting
the barrel (shot exit). It slows the projectile’s velocity over time, and is most
pronounced at extended ranges. Each round has a ballistic coefficient (BC)
that is a measurement of the projectile’s ability to minimize the effects of air
resistance (drag) during flight.
Trajectory – the path of flight that the projectile takes upon shot exit over
time. For the purposes of this manual, the trajectory ends at the point of
impact.
Wind – has the greatest variable effect on ballistic trajectories. The effects
of wind on a projectile are most noticeable in three key areas between half
and two-thirds the distance to the target:

Time (T) – the amount of time the projectile is exposed to the wind
along the trajectory. The greater the range to target, the greater time the
projectile is exposed to the wind’s effects.

Direction – the direction of the wind in relation to the axis of the bore.
This determines the direction of drift of the projectile that should be
compensated.

Velocity (V) – the speed of the wind during the projectile’s trajectory to
the target. Variables in the overall wind velocity affecting a change to
the ballistic trajectory include sustained rate of the wind and gust spikes
in velocity.

TERMINAL BALLISTICS
B-6. Terminal ballistics is the science of the actions of a projectile from the time it
strikes an object until it comes to rest (called terminal rest). This includes the terminal
effects that take place against the target.




Kinetic Energy (EK) – a unit of measurement of the delivered force of a
projectile. Kinetic energy is the delivered energy that a projectile possesses
due to its mass and velocity at the time of impact. Kinetic energy is directly
related to the penetration capability of a projectile against the target.
Penetration – the ability or act of a projectile to enter a target’s mass based
on its delivered kinetic energy. When a projectile strikes a target, the level of
penetration into the target is termed the impact depth. The impact depth is the
distance from the point of impact to the moment the projectile stops at its
terminal resting place. Ultimately, the projectile stops when it has transferred
its momentum to an equal mass of the medium (or arresting medium).

B-7. Against any target, penetration is the most important terminal ballistic
consideration. Soldiers must be aware of the penetration capabilities of their ammunition
against their target, and the most probable results of the terminal ballistics.
B-8. The 5.56mm projectile’s purpose is to focus the largest amount of momentum
(energy) on the smallest possible area of the target to achieve the greatest penetration.
They are designed to resist deformation on impact to enter the target’s mass. The steel
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

B-5

Appendix B

tip of the penetrator allows for reduced deformation through light skin armor or body
armor, and the heavier steel penetrator allows for increased soft tissue damage.

ACTIONS AFTER THE TRIGGER SQUEEZE
B-9. Once the trigger is squeezed, the ballistic actions begin. Although not all
ammunition and weapons operate in the same manner, the following list describes the
general events that occur on the M4- and M16-series weapons when the trigger is
squeezed.
 The hammer strikes the rear of the firing pin.
 The firing pin is pushed forward, striking the cartridge percussion primer
assembly.
 The primer is crushed, pushing the primer composition through the paper
disk, and on to the anvil, detonating the primer composition.
 The burning primer composition is focused evenly through the primer cup
vent hole, igniting the propellant.
 The propellant burns evenly within the cartridge case.
 The cartridge case wall expand from the pressure of the burning propellant,
firmly locking the case to the chamber walls.
 The expanded cartridge case, held firmly in place by the chamber walls and
the face of the bolt provide rear obturation, keeping the burning propellant
and created expanding gasses in front of the cartridge case.
 The projectile is forced by the expanding gasses firmly into the lands and
grooves at the throat of the bore, causing engraving.
 Engraving causes the scoring of the softer outer jacket of the projectile with
the lands and grooves of the bore. This allows the projectile to spin at the
twist rate of the lands and grooves, and provides a forward obturation seal.
The forward obturation keeps the expanding gasses behind the projectile in
order to push it down the length of the barrel.
 As the propellant continues to burn, the gasses created continue to seek the
path of least resistance. As the cartridge case is firmly seated and the
projectile is moveable, the gas continues to exert its force on the projectile.
 Once the projectile passes the gas port on the top of the barrel, a small amount
of gas is permitted to escape from propelling the projectile. This escaping gas
is directed up through the gas port and rearward through the gas tube,
following the path of least resistance. The diameter of the gas port limits the
amount of gas allowed to escape.
 As the end of the projectile leaves the muzzle, it is no longer supported by
the barrel itself. Shot exit occurs.
 Upon shot exit, most of the expanding and burning gasses move outward and
around the projectile, causing the muzzle flash.
 At shot exit, the projectile achieves its maximum muzzle velocity. From shot
exit until the projectile impacts an object, the projectile loses velocity at a
steady rate due to air resistance.
B-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ballistics








As the round travels along its trajectory, the bullet drops consistently by the
effects of gravity.
As the actual line of departure is an elevated angle from the line of sight, the
projectile appears to rise and then descend. This rise and fall of the projectile
is the trajectory.
The round achieves the highest point of its trajectory typically over half way
to the target, depending on the range to target. The high point is called the
round’s maximum ordinate or max ord.
From the max ord, the projectile descends into the target.
The round strikes the target at the point of impact, which, depending on the
firing event, may or may not be the desired point of impact, and is seldom the
point of aim.

Note. The point of aim and point of impact only occur twice during the
bullet’s path to the target at distance; once when the trajectory crosses the
line of sight approximately 25 meters from the muzzle, and again at the zero
distance (300 meters for the Army standard zero).



Once the projectile strikes a target or object, it delivers its kinetic energy
(force) at the point of impact.
Terminal ballistics begin.

B-10. Once terminal ballistics begin, no bullets follow the same path or function.
Generally speaking, the projectile will penetrate objects where the delivered energy
(mass times velocity squared, divided by 2) is greater than the mass, density, and area
of the target at the point of the delivered force. There are other contributing factors, such
as the angle of attack, yaw, oscillation, and other physical considerations that are not
included in this ballistic discussion.

STRUCTURE PENETRATION
B-11. The following common barriers in built-up areas can prevent penetration by a
5.56-mm round fired at less than 50 meters (M855) including:
 Single row sandbags.
 A 2-inch thick concrete wall (not reinforced with rebar or similar item).
 A 55-gallon drum filled with water or sand.
 A metal ammunition can filled with sand.
 A cinder block filled with sand (the block may shatter).
 A plate glass windowpane at a 45-degree angle (glass fragments will be
thrown behind the glass).
 A brick veneer.
Note. The M855A1 enhanced performance round (EPR) has increased
capabilities for barrier penetration compared with M855 as shown above.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

B-7

Appendix B

B-12. Although most structural materials repel single 5.56-mm rounds, continued and
concentrated firing can breach (penetrate through) some typical urban structures.
B-13. The best method for breaching a masonry wall is by firing short bursts in a
U-shaped pattern. The distance from the firer to the wall should be minimized for best
results—ranges as close as 25 meters are relatively safe from ricochet.
B-14. Ball ammunition and armor-piercing rounds produce almost the same results, but
are more likely to ricochet to the sides and rearward back at the firer (called spit-back).
Note. Soldiers must ensure the appropriate level of personal protective
equipment is worn when conducting tactical and collective tasks, particularly
at ranges less than 50 meters.
B-15. The 5.56-mm round can be used to create either a loophole (about 7 inches in
diameter) or a breach hole (large enough for a man to enter). When used against
reinforced concrete, the M16 rifle and M249 cannot cut the reinforcing bars.

SOFT TISSUE PENETRATION
B-16. A gunshot wound, or ballistic trauma, is a form of physical damage sustained
from the entry of a projectile. The degree of tissue disruption caused by a projectile is
related to the size of the cavities created by the projectile as it passes through the target’s
tissue. When striking a personnel target, there are two types of cavities created by the
projectile; permanent and temporary wound cavities.

Permanent Wound Cavity
B-17. The permanent cavity refers specifically to the physical hole left in the tissues of
soft targets by the pass-through of a projectile. It is the total volume of tissue crushed or
destroyed along the path of the projectile within the soft target.
B-18. Depending on the soft tissue composition and density, the tissues are either elastic
or rigid. Elastic organs stretch when penetrated, leaving a smaller wound cavity. Organs
that contain dense tissue, water, or blood are rigid, and can shatter from the force of the
projectile. When a rigid organ shatters from a penetrating bullet, it causes massive blood
loss within a larger permanent wound cavity. Although typically fatal, striking these
organs may not immediately incapacitate the target.

Temporary Wound Cavity
B-19. The temporary wound cavity is an area that surrounds the permanent wound
cavity. It is created by soft, elastic tissues as the projectile passes through the tissue at
greater than 2000 feet per second. The tissue around the permanent cavity is propelled
outward (stretched) in an almost explosive manner from the path of the bullet. This
forms a temporary recess or cavity 10 to 12 times the bullet’s diameter.
B-20. Tissue such as muscle, some organs, and blood vessels are very elastic and can
be stretched by the temporary cavity with little or no damage and have a tendency to
absorb the projectile’s energy. The temporary cavity created will slowly reduce in size
B-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ballistics

over time, although typically not returning completely to the original position or
location.
Note. Projectiles that do not exceed 2000 feet per second velocity on impact
do not provide sufficient force to cause a temporary cavity capable of
incapacitating a threat.
B-21. The extent of the cavitation (the bullet’s creation of the permanent and temporary
cavities) is related to the characteristics of the projectile:
 Kinetic energy (EK) – the delivered mass at a given velocity. Higher
delivered kinetic energy produces greater penetration and tissue damage.
 Yaw – any yaw at the point of impact increases the projectiles surface area
that strikes the target, decreasing kinetic energy, but increasing the
penetration and cavity size.
 Deformation – the physical changes of the projectile’s original shape and
design due to the impact of the target. This increases the projectile’s surface
area and the size of the cavity created after penetration.
 Fragmentation – the fracturing of a projectile into multiple pieces or subprojectiles. The multiple paths of the fragmented sub-projectiles are
unpredictable in size, velocity, and direction. The bullet jacket, and for some
types of projectiles, the lead core, fracture creating small, jagged, sharp
edged pieces that are propelled outward with the temporary cavity.
Fragments can sever tissue, causing large, seemingly explosive-type. Bone
fragments caused by the bullet’s strike can have the same effect.
 Tumbling – the inadvertent end-over-end rotation of the projectile. As a
projectile tumbles as it strikes the target, the bullet travels through the tissues
with a larger diameter. This causes a more severe permanent cavity as it
passes through the soft tissue. A tumbling projectile can change direction
erratically within the body due to its velocity and tendency to strike dense
material with a larger surface area.
B-22. Once inside the target, the projectile’s purpose is to destroy soft tissues with
fragmentation. The ball ammunition is designed to not flatten or expand on impact,
which would decrease velocity and delivered energy. For the M855-series cartridge, the
penetrator tends to bend at the steel-core junction, fracture the weaker jacketed layer,
and fragment into pieces when striking an object.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

B-9

Appendix B

Incapacitation
B-23. Incapacitation with direct fire is the act of ballistically depriving a target of the
ability, strength, or capability to continue its tactical mission. To assist in achieving the
highest probability of incapacitation with a single shot, the projectile is designed with
the ability to tumble, ricochet, or fragment after impact.
B-24. The projectile or its fragments then must hit a vital, blood-bearing organ or the
central nervous system to effectively incapacitate the threat. The projectile’s limited
fragmentation potential after entry maximizes the soft tissue damage and increases the
potential for rapid incapacitation.

Lethal Zones
B-25. The Soldier’s primary point of aim at any target by default is center of visible
mass. This allows for a tolerance that includes the greatest margin of error with the
highest probability of a first round hit. The combat conditions may require more precise
fires at partially exposed targets or targets that require immediate incapacitation.
B-26. Ideally, the point of aim is anywhere within a primary switch area. This point will
maximize the possibility of striking major organs and vessels, rendering a clean, oneshot kill (see figure B-4.)

B-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Ballistics

Figure B-4. Lethal zone example
B-27. Shots to the head should be weighed with caution. The head is the most frequently
moved body part and are the most difficult to hit with precision. Shots to other exposed
body parts, such as the pelvic area, should be considered for the shot.
B-28. Shots to the pelvic area are used when the target is not completely visible or when
the target is wearing body armor that prevents the Soldier from engaging the primary
zone. This area is rich in large blood vessels and a shot here has a good possibility of
impeding enemy movement by destroying the pelvic or hitting the lower spine.
 Circuitry shots (switches).
 Hydraulic shots (timers).
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

B-11

Appendix B

Circuitry Shots (Switches)
B-29. Circuitry shots, or “switches,” are strikes to a target that deliver its immediate
incapacitation. Immediate incapacitation is the sudden physical or mental inability to
initiate or complete any physical task. To accomplish this, the central nervous system
must be destroyed by hitting the brain or spinal column. All bodily functions and
voluntary actions cease when the brain is destroyed and if the spinal column is broken,
all functions cease below the break.

Hydraulic Shots (Timer)
B-30. Hydraulic shots, or “timers,” are impacts on a target where immediate
incapacitation is not guaranteed. These types of ballistic trauma are termed “timers” as
that after the strike of the bullet, the damage caused requires time for the threat to have
sufficient blood loss to render it incapacitated. Hydraulic shots, although ultimately
lethal, allow for the threat to function in a reduced capacity for a period of time.
B-31. For hydraulic shots to eliminate the threat, they must cause a 40 percent loss of
blood within the circulatory system. If the shots do not disrupt that flow at a rapid pace,
the target will be able to continue its mission. Once two (2) liters of blood are lost, the
target will transition into hypovolemic shock and become incapacitated.

B-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Appendix C

Complex Engagements
This appendix provides detailed information on the calculations for
determining deliberate holds for complex engagements and various
engagement techniques. It is designed for the advanced shooter;
however, all Soldiers should be familiar with the contents of the
appendix in order to build their mastery and proficiency with their
individual weapon.
C-1. A complex engagement includes any shot that cannot use the CoVM as the point
of aim to ensure a target hit. Complex engagements require a Soldier to apply various
points of aim (called hold, hold-off, or holds) to successfully defeat the threat.
C-2. This appendix builds upon the concepts discussed in Chapter 7, Aim, and only
include topics specific to deliberate hold determinations. These topics are:
 Target conditions:
 Range to target.
 Moving targets.
 Oblique targets.
 Environmental conditions:
 Wind.
 Angled firing.
 Compound conditions:
C-3. Each of these firing conditions may require the Soldier to determine an
appropriate aim point that is not the CoVM. During any complex engagement, the
Soldier serves as the ballistic computer during the shot process. The hold represents a
refinement or alteration of the center of visible mass point of aim at the target to
counteract certain conditions during a complex engagement for—
 Range to target.
 Lead for targets based on their direction and speed of movement.
 Counter-rotation lead required when the Soldier is moving in the opposite
direction of the moving target.
 Wind speed, direction, and duration between the shooter and the target at
ranges greater than 300 meters.
 Greatest lethal zone presented by the target to provide the most probable point
of impact to achieve immediate incapacitation.
C-4. The Soldier will apply the appropriate aim (hold) based on the firing instances
presented. Hold determinations will be discussed in two formats; immediate and
deliberate.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-1

Appendix C

TARGET CONDITIONS
C-5. Soldiers must consider several aspects of the target to apply the proper point of
aim on the target. The target’s posture, or how it is presenting itself to the shooter,
consists of—
 Range to target.
 Nature of the target.
 Nature of the terrain (surrounding the target).

RANGE TO TARGET
C-6. Rapidly determining an accurate range to target is critical to the success of the
Soldier at mid and extended ranges. There are several range determination methods
shooters should be confident in applying to determine the proper hold-off for pending
engagements.

Deliberate Range Determination
C-7. The deliberate methods afford the shooter a reliable means of determining the
range to a given target; however, these methods require additional time. (See
figure C-1.) With practice and experience, the time to determine the range with these
methods is reduced significantly. The various methods of deliberate range determination
are:
 Reticle relationship (mil or MOA).
 Recognition method.
 Bracketing method.
 Halving method.

Figure C-1. Mil Relation Formula example

C-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Reticle Relationship Method
C-8. With this method, shooters use their aiming device’s reticle to determine the range
to target based on standard target information. To use the appearance of objects method
based on how they align to an aiming device’s reticle, shooters must be familiar with
the sizes and details of personnel and equipment at known distances as shown in
figure C-2.

Figure C-2. Standard dismount threat dimensions example
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-3

Appendix C

C-9. Knowing the standard dimensions to potential targets allows for the Soldier to
assess those dimensions using the aiming device’s reticle. The Soldier will apply the mil
or MOA relationship as they pertain to the aiming device and the target. Figure C-3 and
figure C-4 on page C-5, show various reticle relationship examples.

Figure C-3. RCO range determination using the bullet drop
compensator reticle

C-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Figure C-4. Reticle relationship using a stadiametric reticle example
C-10. Anything that limits the visibility (such as weather, smoke, or darkness) will also
limit the effectiveness of this method. To become proficient in using the appearance of
objects method with accuracy, shooters must be familiar with the characteristic details
of objects as they appear at various ranges.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-5

Appendix C

MOVING TARGETS
C-11. Moving targets are those threats that appear to have a consistent pace and
direction. Targets on any battlefield will not remain stationary for long periods of time,
particularly once a firefight begins. Soldiers must have the ability to deliver lethal fires
at a variety of moving target types and be comfortable and confident in the engagement
techniques. There are two methods for defeating moving targets; tracking and trapping.

Tracking Method
C-12. The tracking method is used for a moving target that is progressing at a steady
pace over a well-determined route. If a Soldier uses the tracking method, he tracks the
target with the rifle’s sight while maintaining sight alignment and a point of aim on or
ahead of (leading) the target until the shot is fired.
C-13. When establishing a lead on a moving target, the rifle sights will not be centered
on the target and instead will be held on a lead in front of the target. The basic lead
formula for moving targets that are generally perpendicular to the shooter (moving
across the sector of observation), is—
𝟏
𝑹(𝟕) = 𝑳
𝟏𝟎𝟎
𝒐𝒓
𝟏
𝑹𝒂𝒏𝒈𝒆 𝒕𝒐 𝑻𝒂𝒓𝒈𝒆𝒕 𝒙 𝟕 = 𝑳𝒆𝒂𝒅 𝒊𝒏 𝑰𝒏𝒄𝒉𝒆𝒔
𝟏𝟎𝟎
C-14. This formula is used to determine the baseline lead in the direction of travel of
the target when its pace is approximately 3 mph or 4.5 feet per second (fps). Figure°C-5,
on page C-7, shows the application of this formula at a notional moving target:

C-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Figure C-5. Deliberate lead formula example
C-15. To execute the tracking method, a Soldier performs the following steps:
 Swing the muzzle of the rifle through the target (from the rear of the target to
the front) to the desired lead (point of aim). The point of aim may be on the
target or some point in front of the target depending upon the target's range,
speed, and angle of movement.
 Track and maintain focus on the rifle’s sight while acquiring the desired sight
picture. It may be necessary to shift the focus between the rifle’s sight and
the target while acquiring the sight picture, but the focus must be on the rifle’s
sight when the shot is fired. Engage the target once the sight picture is
acquired. While maintaining the proper lead,—

Follow-through so the lead is maintained as the bullet exits the muzzle.

Continue to track in case a second shot needs to be fired on the target.

Trapping Method
C-16. The trapping method (see figure C-6) is used when it is difficult to track the target
with the aiming device, as in the prone or sitting position. The lead required to
effectively engage the target determines the engagement point and the appropriate holdoff.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-7

Appendix C

C-17. With the sights settled, the target moves into the predetermined engagement point
and creates the desired sight picture. The trigger is pulled simultaneously with the
establishment of sight picture. To execute the trapping method, a Soldier performs the
following steps:
 Select an aiming point ahead of the target – where to set the trap.
 Obtain sight alignment on the aiming point.
 Hold sight alignment until the target moves into vision and the desired sight
picture is established.
 Engage the target once sight picture is acquired.
 Follow-through so the rifle sights are not disturbed as the bullet exits the
muzzle.

Figure C-6. Deliberate trapping method example
C-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

OBLIQUE TARGETS
C-18. Threats that are moving diagonally toward or away from the shooter are oblique
targets. They offer a unique problem set to shooters where the target may be moving at
a steady pace and direction; however, their oblique posture makes them appear to move
slower.
C-19. Soldiers should adjust their hold-off based on the angle of the target’s movement
from the gun-target line. The following guide (see figure C-7) will help Soldiers
determine the appropriate percentage of hold-off to apply to engage the oblique threats
as they move.

Figure C-7. Oblique target example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-9

Appendix C

ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
C-20. The environment can complicate the shooter’s actions during the shot process
with excessive wind or requiring angled firing limited visibility conditions. Soldiers
must understand the methods to offset or compensate for these firing occasions, and be
prepared to apply these skills to the shot process. This includes when multiple complex
conditions compound the ballistic solution during the firing occasion.

WIND
C-21. Wind deflection is the most influential element in exterior ballistics. Wind does
not push the projectile causing the actual deflection. The bullet’s tip is influenced in the
direction of the wind slightly, resulting in a gradual drift of the bullet in the direction of
the wind. The effects of wind can be compensated for by the shooter provided they
understand how wind effects the projectile and the terminal point of impact. The
elements of wind effects are—
 The time the projectile is exposed to the wind (range).
 The direction from which the wind is blowing.
 The velocity of the wind on the projectile during flight.

Wind Direction and Value
C-22. Winds from the left cause an effect on the projectile to drift to the right, and winds
from the right cause an effect on the projectile to drift to the left. The amount of the
effect depends on the time of (projectile’s exposure) the wind speed and direction. To
compensate for the wind, the firer must first determine the wind’s direction and value.
(See figure C-8 on page C-11.)
C-23. The clock system can be used to determine the direction and value of the wind.
Picture a clock with the firer oriented downrange towards 12 o’clock.
C-24. Once the direction is determined, the value of the wind is next. The value of the
wind is how much effect the wind will have on the projectile. Winds from certain
directions have less effect on projectiles. The chart below shows that winds from 2 to
4°o’clock and 8 to 10 o’clock are considered full-value winds and will have the most
effect on the projectile. Winds from 1, 5, 7, and 11 o’clock are considered half-value
winds and will have roughly half the effect of a full-value wind. Winds from 6 and
12°o’clock are considered no-value winds and little or no effect on the projectile.

C-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Figure C-8. Wind value
C-25. The wind will push the projectile in the direction the wind is blowing (see
figure C-9). The amount of effects on the projectile will depend on the time of exposure,
direction of the wind, and speed of the wind. To compensate for wind the Soldier uses a
hold in the direction of the wind.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-11

Appendix C

Figure C-9. Wind effects

C-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Wind Speed
C-26. Wind speeds can vary from the firing line to the target. Wind speed can be
determined by taking an average of the winds blowing on the range. The firer’s focus
should be on the winds between the firer and the target. The front 1/3 of the trajectory
plays the most significant role in determining the bullet’s wind drift deflection, but with
increasing range, the firer must consider the wind speed at midpoint and the target area
to make the best overall assessment.
C-27. The Soldier can observe the movement of items in the environment downrange
to determine the speed. Each environment will have different vegetation that reacts
differently.
C-28. Downrange wind indicators include the following:
 0 to 3 mph = Hardly felt, but smoke drifts.
 3 to 5 mph = Felt lightly on the face.
 5 to 8 mph = Keeps leaves in constant movement.
 8 to 12 mph = Raises dust and loose paper.
 12 to 15 mph = Causes small trees to sway.
C-29. The wind blowing at the Soldiers location may not be the same as the wind
blowing on the way to the target.

Wind Estimation
C-30. Soldiers must be comfortable and confident in their ability to judge the effects of
the wind to consistently make accurate and precise shots. Soldiers will use wind
indicators between the Soldier and the target that provide windage information to
develop the proper compensation or hold-off.
C-31. To estimate the effects of the wind on the shot, Soldiers need to determine three
windage factors:
 Velocity (speed).
 Direction.
 Value.

Determining Wind Drift
C-32. Once wind velocity, direction, and value have been determined, Soldiers
determine how to compensate for the effects of wind. For the Soldier, there are three
methods of determining the appropriate hold-off to adjust for excessive wind; using the
wind formula, wind estimation, or referencing a generalized ballistic windage chart.
C-33. Once the range to target and wind speed are known, the formula below is used to
determine drift. The output from the formula is in MOA. The final answer is rounded
off to make the calculation quicker to perform. This formula (see figure C-10) will allow
the Soldier to adjust for the distance that the wind displaces his projectile.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-13

Appendix C

Figure C-10. Wind formula and ballistics chart example
C-34. The ballistics chart shows the wind drift in inches at ranges from 100 meters –
300 meters and wind speeds up to 20 mph. The data from the 100-m (meter) line shows
that even in a 20-mph wind there is very little deflection of the round. At 300 meters, it
can be seen that the same 20-mph wind will blow the bullet 26 inches. This illustrates
the fact that the bullet is effected more by the wind the further it starts out from the
target.
Windage Hold
C-35. Using a hold involves changing the point of aim to compensate for the wind drift.
For example, if wind causes the bullet to drift 12 inches to the left, the aiming point must
be moved 12 inches to the right. (See figure C-11 on page C-15.)

C-14

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Figure C-11. Hold-off example
Note. The aiming point is center mass of the visual target, allowing for the
greatest possibility of impacting the target. The hold off is based on the
distance from center mass. Soldiers apply the hold-off creating the new point
of aim.
C-36. Firers must adjust their points of aim into the wind to compensate for its effects.
If they miss a distant target and wind is blowing from the right, they should aim to the
right for the next shot. A guide for the initial adjustment is to split the front sight post
on the edge of the target facing the wind.
C-37. Newly assigned Soldiers should aim at the target's center of visible mass for the
first shot, and then adjust for wind when they are confident that wind caused the miss.
Experienced firers should apply the appropriate hold-off for the first shot, but should
follow the basic rule—when in doubt, aim at the center of visible mass.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-15

Appendix C

ANGLED FIRE
C-38. Firing uphill or downhill at angles greater than 30 degrees, the firer must account
for the change in the strike of the round from a horizontal trajectory. Rounds fired at
excessive angles at extended ranges beyond the weapon’s zero distance strike high on
the target. To compensate for this, firers can rapidly determine a correct firing solution
using the Quick High Angle Formula.
C-39. The first step is to determine the appropriate hold for the range to target beyond
zero distance. Table C-1 provides the approximate holds for M855A1, 5.56mm, Ball,
Enhanced Performance Round (EPR) at ranges beyond the Army standard 300 meter
zero—
Table C-1. Standard holds beyond zero distance example
Range
(meters)

Drop from Point
of Aim
(inches)

MOA Hold

Mil Hold

400

-11.9

2.6

0.7

500

-31.4

5.5

1.6

600

-59.7

8.7

2.5

C-40. Next, the firer estimates the angle of fire to either 30, 45, or 60 degrees. The firer
then applies that information to the Quick High Angle Formula to determine the
approximate high angle hold. This formula is built to create a rapid hold adjustment that
will get the shot on target.
C-41. Figure C-12 shows the quick high angle formula with an example in both MOA
and mils. The example is based on a target at 500 meters, and provides effective
solutions for the three angle categories; 30, 45, and 60 degrees.

C-16

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Complex Engagements

Figure C-12. Quick high angle formula example

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

C-17

Appendix C

COMPOUND CONDITIONS
C-42. When combining difficult target firing occasion information, Soldiers can apply
the rules specific to the situation together to determine the appropriate amount of holdoff to apply.
C-43. The example below shows the application of different moving target directions
with varying speed directions. This is a general example to provide the concept of
applying multiple hold-off information to determine complex ballistic solutions for an
engagement. (See figure C-13.)

Figure C-13. Compound wind and lead determination example

C-18

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Appendix D

Drills
This appendix describes the various drills for the rifle and carbine,
and their purpose. The drill structure is standardized for all
individual and crew served weapons in order to reinforce the most
common actions all Soldiers need to routinely execute with their
assigned equipment during training and combat.
These drills are used during Table III of the integrated weapons
training strategy, as well as during routine maintenance, concurrent
training, and during deployments. The drills found within this
appendix are used to build and maintain skills needed to achieve
proficiency and mastery of the weapon, and are to be ingrained into
daily use with the weapon.
D-1. Each drill is designed to develop confidence in the equipment and Soldier actions
during training and combat operations. As they are reinforced through repetition, they
become second nature to the Soldier, providing smooth, consistent employment during
normal and unusual conditions.
D-2. The drills provided are designed to build the Soldier’s proficiency with the
following principles:
 Mindset – the Soldier’s ability to perform tasks quickly and effectively under
stress.
 Efficiency – ensure the drills require the least amount of movement or steps
to complete correctly. Make every step count.
 Individual tactics – ensure the drills are directly linked to employment in
combat.
 Flexibility – provide drills that are not rigid in execution. Units may alter the
procedural steps depending on their equipment, configuration, or tactical
need.

MINDSET
D-3. Continuous combat is inherently stressful. It exhausts Soldiers and causes
physiological changes that reduce their ability to perform tasks as quickly or effectively
as necessary. The Soldier’s ability to function under stress is the key to winning battles,
since, without the Soldier, weapons and tactics are useless. Individual and unit military
effectiveness depend on the Soldier’s ability to think clearly, accurately, quickly, all
with initiative, motivation, physical strength, and endurance.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

D-1

Appendix D

D-4. The impact of physiological changes caused by the stress of combat escalates or
de-escalates based on the degree of stimulation, causing Soldiers to attain different
levels of awareness as events occur in the continually transitioning operational area
around them. Maintaining a tactical mindset involves understanding one’s level of
awareness and transitioning between the levels of awareness as the situation requires
escalation or de-escalation.
Note. Stress can be countered using the principles associated with Soldier
resilience and performance enhancement. The Comprehensive Soldier and
Family Fitness (CSF2) is designed to increase a Soldier’s ability and
willingness to perform an assigned task or mission and enhance his
performance by assessing and training mental resilience, physical resilience,
and performance enhancement techniques and skills. This initiative
introduces many resources used to train Soldiers on skills to counter stress.
For more information about CSF2, see http://csf2.army.mil/.

EFFICIENCY
D-5. Efficiency is defined as the minimization of time or resources to produce a desired
outcome. Efficient movements are naturally faster than movements that contain
excessive or wasteful actions.
D-6. By reducing the amount of effort, mental, and/or physical, the movement
becomes repeatable and the effect becomes predictable. This allows the Soldier to focus
on the tactics while still maintaining the ability to produce accurate and precise fires.

INDIVIDUAL TACTICS
D-7. Individual tactics are actions independent of unit standard operating procedures
(SOPs) or situations that maximize the Soldier’s chance of survival and victory in a
small arms, direct fire battle.
D-8. Examples of individual tactics include use of cover and standoff, or the
manipulation of time and space between a Soldier and his enemy.

FLEXIBILITY
D-9. The techniques presented in this publication are not meant to be prescriptive, as
multiple techniques can be used to achieve the same goal. In fact, there is no singular
“one size fits all” solution to rifle fire; different types of enemies and scenarios require
the use of different techniques.
D-10. However, the techniques presented are efficient and proven techniques for
conducting various rifle-related tasks. Should other techniques be selected, they should
meet the following criteria:

D-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Drills

RELIABLE UNDER CONDITIONS OF STRESS
D-11. Techniques should be designed for reliability when it counts; during combat. The
technique should produce the intended results without fail, under any conditions and
while wearing mission-essential equipment.
D-12. It should also be tested under as high stress conditions as allowed in training.

REPEATABLE UNDER CONDITIONS OF STRESS
D-13. As combat is a stressor, a Soldier’s body responds much as it does to any other
stressful stimulus; physiological changes begin to occur, igniting a variable scale of
controllable and uncontrollable responses based on the degree of stimulation.
D-14. The technique should support or exploit the body’s natural reaction to lifethreatening stress.

EFFICIENCY IN MOTION
D-15. The technique should be designed to create the greatest degree of efficiency of
motion. It should contain only necessary movement. Excessive or unnecessary
movement in a fighting technique costs time to execute. In a violent encounter, time can
mean the difference between life and death.
D-16. Consider the speed at which violent encounters occur; An unarmed person can
cover a distance of 20 feet in approximately 1 second. Efficiency decreases the time
necessary to complete a task, which enhances the Soldier’s safety.

DEVELOP NATURAL RESPONSES THROUGH REPETITION
D-17. When practiced correctly and in sufficient volume, the technique should build
reflexive reactions that a Soldier applies in response to a set of conditions. Only with
correct practice will a Soldier create the muscle memory necessary to serve him under
conditions of dire stress. The goal is to create automaticity, the ability to perform an
action without thinking through the steps associated with the action.
LEVERAGE OVERMATCH CAPABILITIES
D-18. Engagements can occur from 0 to 600 meters and any variance in between. Fast
and efficient presentation of the rifle allows more time to stabilize the weapon, refine
the aim, and control the shot required to deliver precise fires. This rapidly moves the
unit toward the goal of fire superiority and gains/maintains the initiative. Speed should
be developed throughout the training cycle and maintained during operations.
D-19. As distance between the Soldier and a threat decreases, so does the time to engage
with well-place lethal fires. As distance increase, the Soldier gains time to refine his aim
and conduct manipulations.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

D-3

Appendix D

DRILLS
D-20. To build the skills necessary to master the functional elements of the shot process,
certain tasks are integrated into drills. These drills are designed specifically to capture
the routine, critical tasks or actions Soldiers must perform fluently and as a second
nature to achieve a high level of proficiency.
D-21. Drills focus on the Soldier’s ability to apply specific weapons manipulation
techniques to engage a threat correctly, overcome malfunctions of the weapon or system,
and execute common tasks smoothly and confidently.

DRILL A – WEAPON CHECK
D-22. The weapon check is a visual inspection of the weapon by the Soldier. A weapon
check includes at a minimum verifying:
 Weapon is clear.
 Weapon serial number.
 Aiming device(s) serial number.
 Attachment points of all aiming devices, equipment, and accessories.
 Functions check.
 Proper location of all attachments on the adaptive rail system.
 Zero information.
 Serviceability of all magazines.
D-23. The weapon check is initiated when first receiving the weapon from the arms
room or storage facility. This includes when recovering the weapon when they are
stacked or secured at a grounded location.
D-24. Units may add tasks to Drill A as necessary. Units may direct Soldiers to
execute Drill A at any time to support the unit’s mission.

DRILL B – SLING/UNSLING OR DRAW/HOLSTER
D-25. This drill exercises the Soldier’s ability to change the location of the weapon on
demand. It reinforces their ability to maintain situational and muzzle awareness during
rapid changes of the weapon’s sling posture. If also provides a fitment check between
the weapon, the Soldier’s load bearing equipment, and the Soldier’s ability to move
between positions while maintaining effective use of the weapon.
D-26. When conducting this drill, Soldiers should:
 Verify the proper adjustment to the sling.
 Rotate the torso left and right to ensure the sling does not hang up on any
equipment.
 Ensure the weapon does not interfere with tactical movement.

DRILL C – EQUIPMENT CHECK
D-27. This drill is a Pre-Combat Check (PCC) that ensures the Soldier’s aiming devices,
equipment, and accessories are prepared –
D-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Drills





Batteries.
Secured correctly.
Equipment does not interfere with tactical movement.
Basic load of magazines are stowed properly.

DRILL D – LOAD
D-28. This is predominantly an administrative loading function. This allows the Soldier
to develop reliable loading techniques.

DRILL E – CARRY (FIVE/THREE)
D-29. This is a series of five specific methods of carrying the weapon by a Soldier.
These five methods are closely linked with range operations in the training environment,
but are specifically tailored to combat operations. This drill demonstrates the Soldier’s
proficiency moving between:
 Hang.
 Safe hang.
 Collapsed low ready.
 Low ready.
 High ready (or ready up).
D-30. A leader will announce the appropriate carry term to initiate the drill. Each carry
method should be executed in a random order a minimum of three times.

DRILL F – FIGHT DOWN
D-31. The Fight Down drill builds the Soldier’s understanding of how to move
effectively and efficiently between firing postures. This drill starts at a standing position,
and, on command, the Soldier executes the next lower position or the announced
position by the leader. The Fight Down drill exercises the following positions in
sequence:
 Standing.
 Kneeling.
 Sitting.
 Prone.
D-32. Each position should be executed a minimum of three times. Leaders will use
Drill F in conjunction with Drill G.

DRILL G – FIGHT UP
D-33. The Fight Up drill builds the Soldier’s timing and speed while moving from
various positions during operations. This drill starts in the prone position, and, on
command, the Soldier executes the next higher position or the announced position by
the leader. The Fight Up drill exercises the following positions in sequence:
 Prone.
 Sitting.
13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

D-5

Appendix D



Kneeling.
Standing.

D-34. Each position should be executed a minimum of three times. Leaders will use
Drill F, Fight Down, in conjunction with Drill G, Fight Up.
D-35. Leaders may increase the tempo of the drill, increasing the speed the Soldier needs
to assume the next directed position. After the minimum three iterations are completed
(Drill F, Drill G, Drill F, Drill G, etc.), the leader may switch between Drill F and G at
any time, at varying tempo.

DRILL H – GO-TO-PRONE
D-36. The Go-To-Prone drill develops the Soldier’s agility when rapidly transitioning
from a standing or crouched position to a prone firing position. Standard time should be
below 2 seconds.
D-37. Leaders announce the starting position for the Soldier to assume. Once the Soldier
has correctly executed the start position to standard, the leader will announce GO TO
PRONE. This drill should be conducted a minimum of five times stationary and five
times while walking.
D-38. Leaders should not provide preparatory commands to the drill, and should direct
the Soldier to go to prone when it is unexpected or at irregular intervals. Leaders may
choose to include a tactical rush with the execution of Drill H.

DRILL I – RELOAD
D-39. The Tactical Reload drill is executed when the Soldier is wearing complete load
bearing equipment. It provides exercises to assure fast reliable reloading through
repetition at all firing positions or postures.
D-40. The Soldier should perform Drill I from each of the following positions a
minimum of seven times each:
 Standing.
 Squatting.
 Kneeling.
 Prone.
D-41. Leaders may include other drills while directing Drill I to the Soldier to reinforce
the training as necessary.

DRILL J – CLEAR MALFUNCTION
D-42. This drill includes the three methods to clear the most common malfunctions on
a rifle or carbine in a rapid manner, while maintaining muzzle and situational awareness.
Soldiers should perform all three variations of clearing a malfunction based on the
commands from their leader.

D-6

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Drills

D-43. Each of the three variations of Drill J should be executed five times. Once
complete, leaders should incorporate Drill J with other drills to ensure the Soldier can
execute the tasks at all positions fluently.

DRILL K – UNLOAD / SHOW CLEAR
D-44. This is predominantly an administrative unloading function, and allows the
Soldier to develop reliable clearing techniques. This drill should be executed in tandem
with Drill D, Load. It should be executed a minimum of seven times in order to rotate
through the Soldier’s magazine pouch capacity, and reinforce the use of a “dump pouch”
or pocket, to retain expended magazines during operations.
D-45. This drill can be executed without ammunition in the weapon. Leaders may opt
to use dummy ammunition or spent cartridge cases as desired. In garrison environments,
Leaders should use Drill K on demand, particularly prior to entering buildings or
vehicles to reinforce the Soldier’s skills and attention to detail.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

D-7

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix E

Zeroing
Zeroing a weapon is not a training exercise, nor is it combat skills
event. Zeroing is a maintenance procedure that is accomplished to
place the weapon in operation, based on the Soldier’s skill,
capabilities, tactical scenario, aiming device, and ammunition. Its
purpose is to achieve the desired relationship between the line of
sight and the trajectory of the round at a known distance. The
zeroing process ensures the Soldier, weapon, aiming device, and
ammunition are performing as expected at a specific range to target
with the least amount of induced errors.
For Soldiers to achieve a high level of accuracy and precision, it is
critical they zero their aiming device to their weapon correctly. The
Soldier must first achieve a consistent grouping of a series of shots,
then align the mean point of impact of that grouping to the
appropriate point of aim. Soldiers use the process described in this
appendix with their weapon and equipment’s technical manuals to
complete the zeroing task.

BATTLESIGHT ZERO
E-1. The term battlesight zero means the combination of sight settings and trajectory
that greatly reduces or eliminates the need for precise range estimation, further
eliminating sight adjustment, holdover or hold-under for the most likely engagements.
The battlesight zero is the default sight setting for a weapon, ammunition, and aiming
device combination.
E-2. An appropriate battlesight zero allows the firer to accurately engage targets out
to a set distance without an adjusted aiming point. For aiming devices that are not
designed to be adjusted in combat, or do not have a bullet drop compensator, such as the
M68, the selection of the appropriate battlesight zero distance is critical.

ZEROING PROCESS
E-3. A specific process should be followed when zeroing. The process is designed to
be time-efficient and will produce the most accurate zero possible.
E-4. The zero process includes mechanical zero, laser borelight, 25-m grouping and
zeroing, and zero confirmation out to 300 meters.

13 May 2016

TC 3-22.9

E-1

Appendix E

Note. Although wind and gravity have the greatest effect on the projectile’s
trajectory, air density and elevation must also be taken into consideration.

LASER BORELIGHT
E-5. The borelight is an eye-safe laser that is used to boresight optics, iron sights, and
aiming lasers. The borelight assists the first shot group hitting the 25-m zeroing target
when zeroing the weapon. Using the borelight will save range time and require less
rounds for the zeroing process. Borelighting is done with a borelight, which is centered
in the bore of the weapon, and with an offset target placed 10 meters from the muzzle
of the weapon.

25-M GROUPING AND ZEROING
E-6. After successfully boresighting the weapon, the next step is to perform grouping
and zeroing exercises. Grouping and zeroing is done at 25 meters on a 25-m zero target
or at known distance range.

25-M GROUPING
E-7. The goal of the grouping exercise is for the shooter to fire tight shot groups and
consistently place those groups in the same location. Tight, consistently placed shot
groups show that the firer is applying proper aiming and smooth trigger control before
starting the zeroing process. The firer should not start the zeroing process until they have
demonstrated their ability to group well.

25-M ZEROING
E-8. Once the firer has shown their ability to accurately group, they should begin
adjusting the aiming device to move the groups to the center of the target. During the
zeroing process, the firer should attempt to center their groups as much as possible.
Depending on the aiming device used, there may be a zero offset that needs to be used
at 25 meters. During the zeroing process it is important that the firer adjusts their groups
as close to the offset mark as possible.

ZERO CONFIRMATION OUT TO 300 METERS
E-9. The most important step in the zeroing process is zero confirmation out to 300
meters. Having a 25 m zero does not guarantee a center hit at 300 meters. The only way
to rely on a 300-m hit, is to confirm a 300-m zero.
E-10. Confirmation can be done on any range where Soldiers can see the impacts of
their rounds. Groups should be fired and aiming devices should be adjusted. At a
minimum, the confirmation should be done at 300 meters. If rounds are available, groups
can be fired at various ranges to show the firers where their impact will be.
E-11. When confirming zero at ranges past 100 meters, the effects of the wind needs to
be considered and acted upon, if necessary. If a zero is confirmed at 300 meters on a
windy day, and then the weapon is fired at a later date in different wind conditions or no
wind at all, the impact will change. (See figure E-1 on page E-3.)
E-2

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Zeroing

Figure E-1. Wind effects on zero at 300 meters

DOWNRANGE FEEDBACK
E-12. Feedback must be included in all live-fire training. Soldiers must have precise
knowledge of a bullet strike; feedback is not adequate when bullets from previous firings
cannot be identified. To provide accurate feedback, trainers ensure that Soldiers
triangulate and clearly mark previous shot groups on a zeroing target or receive a hard
copy from the tower on an automated range.
E-13. After zeroing, downrange feedback should be conducted. If modified field fire or
known distance ranges are not available, a series of scaled silhouette targets can be used
for training on the 25-m range.
E-14. With the M4- and M16-series of weapons, this range is 25 to 300 meters. This
means, that with a properly zeroed rifle, the firer can aim center mass of a target between
25 meters and 300 meters and effectively engage it. A properly trained rifleman should
be able to engage targets out to 600 meters in the right circumstances.

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-3

Appendix E

Note. A common misconception is that wearing combat gear will cause the
zero to change. Adding combat gear to the Soldier's body does not cause the
sights or the reticle to move. The straight line between the center of the rear
sight aperture and the tip of the front sight post either intersects with the
trajectory at the desired point, or it does not. Soldiers should be aware of their
own performance, to include a tendency to pull their shots in a certain
direction, across various positions, and with or without combat gear. A shift
in point of impact in one shooting position may not correspond to a shift in
the point of impact from a different shooting position.
E-15. Figure E-2, on page E-5, shows the zeroing target for use for the M16A2/M16A4.
Figure E-3, on page E-6, M4-/M16-series weapons.

E-4

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Zeroing

Figure E-2. M16A2 / M16A4 weapons 25m zero target

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-5

Appendix E

Figure E-3. M4-/M16-series weapons 25m zero short range and pistol
marksmanship target

E-6

TC 3-22.9, C2

31 August 2017

Zeroing

E-16. A good zero is necessary to be able to engage targets accurately. Whenever the
Soldier deploys or does training in a new location, they should confirm the zero on their
rifle if possible, as elevation, barometric pressure, and other factors will affect the
trajectory of a round. There are multitudes of factors that can affect a zero, and the only
sure way to know where the rounds are going, is to fire the rifle to confirm.
E-17. The zero on each assigned rifle WILL NOT transfer to another rifle. For example,
if the windage zero on the Soldier’s iron sights was three minutes (3MOA) left of center,
putting that same setting on another rifle does not make it zeroed. This is due to the
manufacturing difference between the weapons.
E-18. It is recommended that Soldiers setup their equipment and dry practice in position
with gear on before coming to the range.
E-19. Standard in Training Commission (STRAC) Department of the Army Pamphlet
(DA PAM) 350-38 allocates ammunition to conduct zeroing procedures using three-shot
groups. The preferred method is to use a five-shot grouping, allowing the firer to more
accurately analyze their shot group. Figure E-4 shows similar three-shot and five-shot
groups with one shot on the right edge of the group. If all the shots were taken into
account in the three-shot group, the firer would probably adjust their zero from the right
edge of the four-cm circle. It is possible that the shot on the right was a poor shot and
should not be counted in the group. The five-shot group on right is in the same place as
the one on the left with the exception of the one shot out to the right. With four out of
five shots in a tight group, the wide shot can be discounted and little or no change to the
windage is necessary.
E-20. Part of the grouping and zeroing process is the marking and analysis of shot
groups.

Figure E-4. Grouping

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-7

Appendix E

MARKING THE SHOT GROUP
E-21. If possible, shot groups should be marked using different colored markers so the
firer can track their progress. Figure E-5 shows a technique for marking shot groups on
a zero target. This technique allows the firer and coach to track their progress throughout
the grouping and zeroing phase.
E-22. All sight adjustments are from the center of the group, called the mean point of
impact (MPI), and not from the location of a single shot. When using five-shot group, a
single shot that is outside of the rest of the group should not be counted in the group for
sight adjustment purposes.
Note. This figure depicts the color variations in shades of gray.

Figure E-5. Marking shot groups

E-8

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Zeroing

E-23. The firer shoots and marks their first shot group with a colored marker. The color
of the first group is noted by placing a line with that marker next to the 1 on the right
side of the zero target. Groups are fired and marked until they are consistently in the
same location.
E-24. Each sight adjustment is annotated in the same color as the group that was just
fired.

COACHING
E-25. Coaching is the process of having another Soldier observe the firer during the
firing process to look for shooting errors that the firer themselves may not consciously
know they are making.

TYPES OF COACHES
E-26. Firing a rifle properly requires the consistent and proper application of the
elements of employment. It is about doing the right thing, the same way, every shot. The
small arms trainer is also the validation point for any questions during employment
training. In most cases, once group training is completed, it will be the firer’s
responsibility to realize and correct his own firing errors but this process can be made
easier through the use of a coach.
E-27. Two types of coaches exist, the experienced coach and the peer coach. Although
each should execute coaching the same way, experienced coaches have a more thorough
understanding of employment and should have more knowledge and practice in firing
than the Soldiers they are coaching. Knowledge and skill does not necessarily come with
rank therefore Soldiers serving as experienced coaches should be carefully selected for
their demonstrated firing ability and their ability to convey information to firers of
varying experience levels.

EXPERIENCED COACHES
E-28. Experienced coaches are generally in shorter supply throughout the Army and are
generally outnumbered by less skilled firers. This lack of experienced coaches usually
leads to one experienced coach watching multiple firers dependent upon the table or
period of employment being fired. It often helps the experienced coach to make notes of
errors they observe in shooters and discuss them after firing that group. It is often
difficult for the coach to remember the errors that they observe in each and every firer.

PEER COACHES
E-29. Using a peer coach, although generally not as effective as using an experienced
coach, is still a very useful technique. The advantage of using a peer coach is two-fold:
a peer coach may use their limited knowledge of employment to observe the firer when
an experienced coach is not available or is occupied with another firer and can either
talk the firer through the shooting errors that they have observed or bring any observed
shooting errors to the attention of the experienced coach. The other advantage of using
a peer coach is that the peer coach themselves, through the act of coaching, may be able
to observe mistakes made by the firer and learn from them before making the mistakes
31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-9

Appendix E

themselves. Many people grasp instruction more deeply when they are coaching others
than when they are simply told to do something.
Note. Peer coaches can be limited by their level of training.
E-30. Except for aiming, the coach can observe most of the important aspects of the
elements of employment. To determine the unobservable errors of shooting the coach
and the firer must have an open dialog and there must be a relaxed environment for
learning. The firer cannot be hesitant to ask questions of the coach and the coach must
not become a stressor during firing. The coach must have the ability to safely move
around the firer to properly observe. There is no one ideal coaching position. The
following section will discuss the elements of shooting and how best to observe them as
a coach.

STABILIZE
E-31. For the coach to observe how stable the shooter is, they may have to move to
different sides of the shooter. To observe the shooter’s non-firing elbow (to ensure it
makes contact with the ground), the coach will need to be on the shooter’s non-firing
side. To observe the cant of the weapon (the sights on the weapon should be pointing
towards 12 o’clock position, not 11 or 1 o’clock positions), the coach will need to watch
the relationship of the front sight to the barrel from behind the shooter. The coach should
look for all the other aspects of good positions as outlined in chapter 6 of this publication.
The coach should also observe the total amount of weapon movement on recoil. A good
stable position will have minimal movement under recoil.

AIMING
E-32. Determining the aspects of the firer’s aiming (sight picture, sight alignment, point
of focus) requires dialogue between the firer and the coach. Often, a shooter will not
realize his aiming errors until he discovers them on his own. The only method a coach
has to observe aiming errors is to use of an M16 sighting device (A2, left and right,
DVC-T 7-84), but this device can only be used on rifles with carrying handle sights.
Without the use of a sighting device, the coach must rely on drawings, discussions, or
the use of an M15A1 aiming card (DVC-T 07-26) to determine where the firer is aiming
on the target, his focus point during firing (which should be the front sight), and where
his front sight was at the moment of firing in relation to the rear sight aperture and the
point of aim on the target. The technique of having the firer call his shots should also be
used. This technique involves calling the point on the target where the sights were
located at the moment of firing and matching the point called with the impact locations
on the target. Calling the shot helps the firer learn to focus on the front sight during the
entire firing process.
E-33. When optics are being used, the shooter can tell the coach where he was holding.
This is of particular importance with the RCO. Coaches must insure the 300m aim point
is used when zeroing at 25-m.

E-10

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Zeroing

CONTROL
E-34. The ideal position to observe trigger squeeze is from the non-firing side because
the coach will have a better view of the speed of pull, finger position on the trigger, and
release or pressure on the trigger after firing. The coach can look from behind the shooter
to observe the barrel for lateral movement caused by slapping the trigger during firing.

COACHING FACTORS
E-35. All firing happens at the weapon. This means that the coach should be focused
solely on the shooter during firing and not on what is happening down range.
E-36. There is no way for a coach to observe only the bullets impact on target and know
what errors the firer made. The coach must watch the shooter during firing to determine
errors and use the impacts to confirm their assumptions.
E-37. For a coach to properly observe all aspects of firing they must be able to observe
the shooter, safely, from both sides and the back. There is no prescribed coaching
position.
E-38. Coaching requires a relaxed atmosphere with open communication between the
firer and the coach.

SHOT GROUP ANALYSIS
E-39. Shot group analysis involves the firer correlating the shots on paper with the
mental image of how the shots looked when fired. An accurate analysis of the shot group
cannot be made by merely looking at the holes in the paper. It is more important to
observe the firer than to try and analyze the target. All firing takes place at the weapon,
and the holes in the paper are only an indicator of where the barrel was pointed when
the rifle was fired. When coaches are analyzing groups, they must question the firer
about the group to make a determination of what caused the placement of the shots.
E-40. For example, if the firer has a tight group – minus one shot that is well outside of
the group, the firer should have observed the outlying shot while firing. The firer would
discount this shot when marking their group. (See figure E-6a and figure E-6b.) If a
coach is analyzing the group, the firer would tell them that they performed poorly on the
one shot that is out of the group.

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-11

Appendix E

Figure E-6a. Horizontal diagnostic shots

E-12

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Zeroing

Figure E-6b. Vertical diagnostic shots
E-41. Novice shooters may benefit from not marking their own shot group. When
marking a shot group an inexperienced or stressed Soldier may unintentionally make
mental corrections. These mental corrections along with the mechanical corrections to
their weapon will cause further issues during follow on shot groups. The experienced
Soldier is less likely to make adjustments to their sight placement along with the
mechanical changes to the weapon, knowing the zero process is aligning the sights to
the location of the impact of the rounds. Having a coach or the employment instructor
simply inform the Soldier of mechanical changes needed to the aiming device is an
effective way to accomplish this method.
E-42. Observing the shooter must be accomplished before analyzing the target can
become effective. Bullets strung vertically do not necessarily mean a breathing issue,
nor do bullets strung horizontally absolutely indicate a trigger squeeze problem. Coaches
must learn to identify shooter errors during firing and use the bullet’s impacts on target
to confirm their observations. There are often several firing errors that can be the cause
of certain misplacements of impacts. The coach has to realize that bullets only go where

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-13

Appendix E

the barrel is pointed, so he has to determine what happened that caused the barrel to be
pointed in those directions, and those causes can be many.
E-43. They key to proper coaching is becoming a shooting DETECTIVE. The coach
needs to observe the shooter, question the shooter, look at the evidence down range,
question the shooter again, make assumptions based upon the evidence available, and
then act upon his assumptions. The coach and shooter must have a free and open dialog
with each other in a relaxed atmosphere. Remember if a Soldier learns to shoot poorly
they will only be capable of shooting poorly.

Displacement of Shots Within a Group (Flyers)
E-44. The capability of the weapon to shoot groups varies dependent on the number of
rounds fired through the barrel over its lifetime. The average expected group size is
1 inch (approximately 2.5 centimeters) at 25 meters; some guns may shoot slightly larger
than this. If a shooter is firing groups larger than a normal group size the next step should
be to have a known skilled shooter attempt to fire and group with the shooter’s weapon.
If a proven skilled shooter is able to fire groups of the normal size it is most likely an
issue with the original shooter. If however the skilled shooter cannot fire within the
accepted group size there may be something wrong with the gun or barrel.
E-45. When looking at groups where there are one to two shots away from the group
body (one shot away for a three round group, one or two shots away for a five round
group), the coach must look objectively at the overall consistency of group placement.
A bad shot or group might not indicate a poor grasp of the elements; every shooter will
have a bad shot now and again, and some shooters may even have a bad group now and
again. Coaches need to use their experience and determine whether or not the firer had
a bad shot, a bad group, or doesn’t have a clear grasp of the elements and take the
necessary steps to get the shooter to the end-state. The coach may have the firer shoot
again and ignore the bad group or bad shot, instead hoping that the new group matches
up with the previous shot groups or the coach may need to pull the shooter off the line
and cover the basic elements. Contrary to popular belief, having a firer shoot over and
over again in one sitting, until the firer GETS IT RIGHT is not a highly effective
technique.

Bullets Dispersed Laterally on Target
E-46. Bullets displaced in this manner could be caused by a lateral movement of the
barrel due to an unnatural placement of the trigger finger on the trigger. Reasons for this
could include—
 The shooter may be slightly misaligning the sights to the left and right.
 The shooter may have the sights aligned properly but may have trouble
keeping the target itself perfectly centered on the tip of the front sight.
 Shooter may be closing eyes at the moment of firing or flinching.

Bullets Dispersed Vertically on Target
E-47. Bullets displaced in a vertical manner could be caused by the following:

E-14

TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Zeroing








Shooter may be misaligning the front sight in the rear sight aperture
vertically. May be caused by the shooter watching the target instead of the
front sight. Happens more frequently from less stable positions (kneeling,
unsupported positions) due to the natural movement of the weapon.
Shooter may have trouble seeing the target and keeping the tip of the front
sight exactly centered vertically on the target. Coach may consider using a
larger target or a non-standard aiming point such as a 5-inch circle. Many
shooters find it easier to find the center of a circle than a man shaped target.
Shooter may not have good support, which causes him to readjust their
position every shot and settle with the sights slightly misaligned.
Shooter may be flinching or closing eyes at the moment of firing.
Shooter may be breathing while firing the rifle. (This is not normally the
case, most shooters instinctively hold their breath just before the moment of
firing).

Large Groups
E-48. Large groups are most commonly caused by the shooter looking at the target
instead of the front sight. This causes the shooter to place the front sight in the center of
the target without regard for its location in the rear sight aperture. A small misalignment
of the sights will result in a large misplacement of shots downrange.
E-49. Most likely it is not a point of aim issue; most shooters will not fire when their
properly aligned sights are pointed all over the target.

Good Groups That Change Position on the Target
E-50. When the shooter has good groups but they are located at different positions on
the target, there can be a number of reasons. These include the following:
 May be caused by the shooter properly aligning sights during shooting but
picking up a different point of aim on the target each time.
 May be caused by the shooter settling into a position with the front sight on
target but the sights misaligned. The shooter maintains the incorrect sight
picture throughout the group but aligns the sights incorrectly and in a
different manner during the next group. Tell the firer to focus on the front
sight and have them check natural point of aim before each group.

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

E-15

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix F

10-Meter Boresight Offsets and 25-Meter Zero Offsets
This appendix provides the 10-meter target offsets and the 25-meter
zero offsets for M16- and M4-series weapons mounted with iron
sights, optics, MILES, TWSs, or aiming lasers.
“The general purpose of the 10 meter borelight offset targets and
the 25m live-fire zero offset targets is to ensure the firer has properly
borelighted their rifle.”
Note. The borelight is a visible laser. The purpose of boresighting is to obtain
an initial setting on the firer’s sights, optics, and/or night equipment (aiming
lights and TWS) to enable the firer to hit the 25m zero live-fire target when
starting the zero process, resulting in efficient use of range time. Borelighting
is conducted prior to live-fire zeroing. It is not a substitute for live-fire
zeroing.
F-1. The boresight target shows the desired relationship between the bore of the
weapon and the firer’s aiming point, which varies with the weapon/sight system
combination. Different symbols are used for designating different sights/optics, and so
forth. All borelighting is done at 10 meters. This is a dry-fire exercise. Sight settings
based on borelight procedures must be verified with live-fire zero at 25 meters.
F-2. A blank, reproducible 10-meter target offset (figure F-2 on page F-3) and an
example of each weapon configuration (figure F-3 on page F-4, figure F-4 on page F-9,
and figure F-5 on page F-10) are provided. The M16A2 300-meter zeroing target is used
for 25-meter zeroing with all weapon configurations, except when zeroing with iron
sights.

MARKING 10-METER TARGET OFFSETS
F-3. To mark the proper 10-meter target offsets—
 Find the correct template for the weapon configuration.
 Starting from the center of the borelight circle on the offset, count the number
of squares to the desired point of aim.

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

F-1

Appendix F

EXAMPLE
L2.0, U2.4

Starting from the center of the borelight circle (0.0, 0.0), move left 2 squares
and up 2.4 squares.

Note. Each template also provides a number formula for the proper offset.


Place the appropriate symbol or mark. (See figure F-1.)

Legend: MILES = Multiple-Integrated Laser
Engagement System, TWS = thermal weapon sight
Figure F-1. 10-meter target offset symbols
Notes.

F-2

1.

To reproduce the 10-meter target offset, obtain a copy of the
blank 10-meter target offset and place the example of the
weapon being used on the back. This reproducible copy can
be laminated and used repeatedly.

2.

Table F-1 on page F-5 provides offset mounting information
for various weapon configurations.

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

10-Meter Boresight Offsets and 25-Meter Zero Offsets

Legend: ARDEC = Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center, M =
meter
Figure F-2. Blank 10-meter target offset

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

F-3

Appendix F

Legend: L= left, MILES = Multiple-Integrated Laser Engagement System, Mtd =
mounted, ARDEC = Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center, Tgt =
target, U = up
Figure F-3. M16A2 10-meter boresighting target

F-4

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

10-Meter Boresight Offsets and 25-Meter Zero Offsets

Table F-1. Offset mounting
WEAPON

M16A2

ACCES
-SORY
Iron
sight

RAIL
GRABBER

MOUNT

LOCATION

RANGE
TO
ZERO

N/A

N/A

N/A

300 m

Carrying
handle

M16A2

M68

N/A

M68
gooseneck
bracket

M16A2

LTWS

TWS

TWS
bracket
assembly

Carrying
handle

M16A2

TWS

N/A

TWS
bracket
assembly

Carrying
handle

M16A2

AN/PA
Q-4B/C

N/A

M4/M16
bracket

Hand
guards

M16A2

AN/PE
Q-2A/B

N/A

M4/M16
bracket

M16/M203

AN/PA
Q-4B/C

N/A

Spacer

M4/M4A1

BUIS

N/A

M4/M4A1

AN/PA
Q-4B/C

M4/M4A1

ZERO
OFFSET

BORESIGHT
TARGET

MILES
OFFSET

0.0 0.0

0.0 4.2U

2.0L
0.9U

0.0 1.4
cm DN

0.0 5.2U

2.0L
2.4U

0.0 10D

0.0
13.4U

2.0L
2.4U

0.0 8.1D

0.0
11.5U

2.0L
2.4U

300 m

1.5R
0.5U

1.85L
2.54U

2.0L
0.9U

Hand
guards

300 m

1.5L
0.5U

1.8R
2.4U

2.0L
0.9U

Carrying
handle

300 m

1.85R
2.6D

1.85L
8.6U

2.0L
3.9U

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 0.0

0.0
4.01U

2.0L
0.9U

N/A

M4/M16
bracket

Hand
guards

300 m

1.5R
2.5U

1.85L
2.54U

2.0L
0.9U

LTWS

TWS

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 4.5D

0.0 7.9U

Picatinny

Upper
receiver

0.0 9.4U

TWS

TWS
spacer
and rail
grabber

0.0 5.7D

M4/M4A1

2.0L
2.4U

M4/M4A1

AN/PE
Q-2A/B

N/A

M4/M16
bracket

Hand
guards

300 m

1.0L
0.3U

1.8R
2.4U

2.0L
0.9U

M4/M4A1

M68

M68

Halfmoon
spacer

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0
5.63U

2.0L
2.4U

M4/M203

BUIS

N/A

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 0.0

0.0
6.01U

2.0L
0.9U

M4/M203

AN/PA
Q-4B/C

N/A

Carrying
handle

300 m

1.3R
1.9D

1.85L
8.6U

2.0L
0.9U

Spacer

300 m

300 m

300 m

300 m

0.0 1.4
cm DN

TBD

Note. Target offsets not yet developed are indicated by TBD.
Legend: BUIS = back up iron sight, cm = centimeters, D or DN = down, L = left, LTWS = light thermal
weapon sight, m = meter, R = right, N/A = not applicable, TBD -= to be developed, TWS = thermal weapon
sight, U = up

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

F-5

Appendix F

Table F-1. Offset mounting (continued)
WEAPON

ACCES
-SORY

RAIL
GRABBER

MOUNT

LOCATION

RANGE
TO
ZERO

ZERO
OFFSET

BORESIGHT
TARGET

MILES
OFFSET

M4 MWS

BUIS

N/A

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 0.0

0.0
4.01U

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

M68

M68

Rail
grabber

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 1.4
cm DN

0.0
5.63U

2.0L
2.4U

M4 MWS

LTWS

TWS

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 4.5D

0.0 7.9U

2.0L
2.4U

M4 MWS

TWS

TWS

Spacer

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 5.7D

0.0 9.4U

2.0L
2.4U

M4 MWS

ANPEQ
-2A

Insight

N/A

Left

300 m

TBD

4.5L
1.0D

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

N/A

Right

300 m

N/A

5.5R
5.4D

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

N/A

Top

300 m

1.5L
0.5D

2.9R
2.3U

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Picatinny

Spacer

Top

300 m

N/A

1.95R
4.1U

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Picatinny

Spacer

Right

300 m

N/A

6.35R
4.4D

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Picatinny

Spacer

Left

300 m

6.9R
2.0U

6.2L
0.60D

2.0L
0.9U

M4MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

Training
adapter

Top

300 m

2.0L
1.5D

N/A

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Picatinny

AN/PA
Q-4B/C
bracket
adapter

Top

300 m

4.9R
6.1U

1.75L
3.9U

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Picatinny

AN/PA
Q-4B/C
bracket
adapter
(spacer)

Right

300 m

N/A

6.9R
0.9D

2.0L
0.9U

M4 MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Insight

N/A

Top

300 m

N/A

1.75L
2.15U

2.0L
0.9U

M4MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Insight

N/A

Right

300 m

N/A

4.35R
0.65D

2.0L
0.9U

M4MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Insight

N/A

Left

300 m

N/A

4.30L
4.25D

2.0L
0.9U

Legend: BUIS = back up iron sight, cm = centimeters, D or DN = down, L = left, LTWS = light thermal
weapon sight , m = meter, MWS = modular weapon system, R = right, N/A = not applicable, TBD = to be
developed, TWS = thermal weapon sight, U = up

F-6

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

10-Meter Boresight Offsets and 25-Meter Zero Offsets

Table F-1. Offset mounting (continued)
WEAPON

M4 MWS
M203
M4 MWS
M203
M16A4
MWS

ACCES
-SORY

RAIL
GRABBER

MOUNT

LOCATION

RANGE
TO
ZERO

BUIS

N/A

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Picatinny

Bracket
adapter
(spacer)

Left

300 m

BUIS

N/A

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

Left

300 m

ZERO
OFFSET

BORESIGHT
TARGET

MILES
OFFSET

0.0 0.0

0.0
6.01U

2.0L
0.9U

4.9R
6.1U

6.0L
4.0D

2.0L
3.9U

0.0 0.0

0.0
4.01U

2.0L
0.9U

6.5R
8.1U

6.03L
4.25D

2.0L
0.9U

0.0 6.0D

0.0 9.4U

2.0L
2.4U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Picatinny

AN/PA
Q-4B/C
bracket
adapter
(spacer)

M16A4
MWS

TWS

TWS

Spacer

Upper
receiver

300 m

M16A4
MWS

M68

M68

N/A

Upper
receiver

300 m

0.0 1.4
cm DN

0.0
5.63U

2.0L
2.4U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

N/A

Left

300 m

3.0R
3.0U

4.5L
1.0D

2.0L
0.9U

M16A4
MWS
M203

N/A

N/A

Upper
receiver

0.0 0.0

BUIS

300 m

0.0
6.01U

2.0L
0.9U

M16A4
MWS
M203

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Picatinny

AN/PA
Q-4B/C
bracket
adapter
(spacer)

Left

300 m

6.5R
8.1U

6.0L
4.0D

2.0L
3.9U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Picatinny

Left

300 m

6.0R
2.0U

6.2L
0.60D

2.0L
0.9U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Picatinny

Right

300 m

TBD

6.35R
4.4D

2.0L
0.9U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Picatinny

Top

300 m

TBD

1.95R
4.1U

2.0L
0.9U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

N/A

Right

300 m

TBD

5.5R
5.4D

2.0L
0.9U

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

N/A

Top

300 m

1.5L
0.5D

2.0R
2.3U

2.0L
0.9U

Spacer
Spacer
Spacer

Note. Target offsets not yet developed are indicated by TBD.
Legend: BUIS = back up iron sight, cm = centimeter, D or DN = down, m = meter, L = left, MWS = modular
weapon system, R = right, N/A = not applicable, TBD = to be developed, TWS = thermal weapon sight, U =
up

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

F-7

Appendix F

Table F-1. Offset mounting (continued)
WEAPON

ACCES
-SORY

RAIL
GRABBER

M16A4
MWS

AN/PEQ
-2A/B

Insight

M16A4
MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

M16A4
MWS

MOUNT

LOCATION

RANGE
TO
ZERO

ZERO
OFFSET

Training
adapter

Top

300 m

Picatinny

AN/PA
Q-4B/C
bracket
adapter

Top

300 m

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Picatinny

AN/PA
C-4B/C
bracket
adapter

Right

300 m

N/A

M16A4
MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Insight

N/A

Top

300 m

M16A4
MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Insight

N/A

Right

M16A4
MWS

AN/PAQ
-4B/C

Insight

N/A

Left

BORESIGHT
TARGET

MILES
OFFSET

2.0L
1.5D

TBD

2.0L
0.9D

4.9R
6.1U

1.75L
3.9U

2.0L
0.9U

6.0R
0.9D

2.0L
0.9U

N/A

1.75L
2.15U

2.0L
0.9U

300 m

N/A

4.35R
0.65D

2.0L
0.9U

300 m

N/A

4.30L
4.25D

2.0L
0.9U

Note. Target offsets not yet developed are indicated by TBD).
Legend: D = down, L = left, m = meter, MWS = modular weapon system, N/A = not applicable, R = right,
TBD = to be developed, TWS = thermal weapon sight, U = up

F-8

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

10-Meter Boresight Offsets and 25-Meter Zero Offsets

Legend: ARDEC = Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center, cm =
centimeter, L = left, MILES = Multiple-Integrated Laser Engagement System, Mtd =
mounted, RCO = rifle combat optic, Tgt = target, U = up
Figure F-4. 300-meter zero of the advanced combat optical gunsight

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

F-9

Appendix F

Legend: M = meter
Figure F-5. Advanced combat optical gunsight points of aim
(100 to 300 meters)

F-10

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. Where Army and joint
definitions differ, (Army) precedes the definition. Terms for which TC 3-22.9 is the
proponent are marked with an asterisk. The proponent manual for other terms is listed in
parentheses after the definition.

SECTION I – ACRONYM/ABBREVIATIONS
AM
ARNG
ARNGUS
ARS
ATPIAL
BC
BDC
BUIS
BZO
CBRN
CCO
CSF2
CoVM
DA
DBAL-A2
DMC
DOTD
DODIC
EENT
Ek
fps
FOV
GTL
HTWS
I2
IR
LASER
LCD
LRF
LWTS
MASS

13 May 2016

arc of movemet
Army National Guard
Army National Guard of the United States
adapter rail system
advanced target pointer illuminator aiming light
ballistic coefficient
bullet drop compensater
back up iron sight
battle sight zero
chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
close combat optic
Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness
center of visible mass
Department of the Army
dual beam aiming laser-advanced2
digital magnetic compass
Directorate of Training and Doctrine
Department of Defense Identification Code
end evening nautical twilight
kinectic energy
feet per second
field of view
gun target line
heavy thermal weapons sight
image intensifier
infrared
light amplified stimulated emitted radiation
liquid crystal display
laser range finder
light weapons thermal sight
modular accessory shotgun system

TC 3-22.9

Glossary-1

Glossary

MCoE
METT-TC
MIL STD
m
mm
mph
MOA
MTBF
MWO
MWS
MWTS
NATO
NOD
PAM
PMCS
POA
POI
NSN
RCO
SAA
SOP
STANAG
STRAC
STORM
TACSOP
TC
TES
TM
T
TWS
µm
USAR
U.S.
VAL
VFG
V
WCS
WTS
Glossary-2

United States Army Maneuver Center of Excellence
mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and
support-time available, and civil considerations
military standard
meter
millimeter
mile per hour
minutes of angle
mean time between failures
modified word order
modular weapon system
medium weapon thermal sight
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
night observation device
pamphlet
preventative maintenance checks and services
point of aim
point of impact
National Stock Number
rifle combat optic
small arms ammunition
standard operating procedure
Standardized Agreement
Standard in Training Commission
illuminator, integrated, small arms
tactical standard operating procedure
Training Circular
tactical engagement simulation
Technical Manual
time
thermal weapon sight
micrometer
United States Army Reserve
United States
visible aim laser
vertical foregrip
velocity
weapon control status
weapons thermal sights
TC 3-22.9

13 May 2016

Glossary

SECTION II – TERMS
*employment
The application of the functional elements of the shot process and skills to accurately
and precisely fire a weapon at stationary or moving targets.

31 August 2017

TC 3-22.9, C2

Glossary-3

This page intentionally left blank.

References
URLs accessed 7 October 2019.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
ADP 1-02, Terms and Military Symbols, 14 August 2018.
DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 2FWREHU 2019.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications and regulations are available at:
http://www.apd.army.mil.
Most joint publications are available online at:
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/doctrine/doctrine.htm.
Other publications are available on the Central Army Registry on the Army Training
Network, https://atiam.train.army.mil.
Military Standards are available online at http://quicksearch.dla.mil/.
ATP 3-21.8, The Infantry Rifle Platoon and Squad of the Infantry Brigade Combat
Team, 12 April 2016.
DA PAM 350-38, Standards in Training Commission, 6 October 2015.
FM 6-27/MCTP 11-10C, The Commander’s Handbook on the Law of Warfare,
7 August 2019.
MIL-STD-709D, Department of Defense Criteria Standard: Ammunition Color
Coding, 16 March 2009.
MIL-STD-1913, Military Standard Dimensioning of Accessory Mounting Rail for
Small Arms Weapons, 3 February 1995.
TC 3-22.12, M26 Modular Accessory Shotgun System, 12 November 2014.
TM 9-1005-319-10, Operator`s Manual for Rifle, 5.56 MM, M16A2 W/E (NSN
1005-01-128-9936) (EIC: 4GM); Rifle, 5.56 MM, M16A3 (1005-01-3575112); Rifle, 5.56 MM, M16A4 (1005-01-383-2872) (EIC: 4F9); Carbine,
5.56 MM, M4 W/E (1005-01-231-0973) (EIC: 4FJ); Carbine, 5.56 MM,
M4A1 (1005-01-382-0953) (EIC: 4GC) {TO 11W3-5-5-41; SW 370-BU-OPI010}, 30 June 2010.
TM 9-1240-413-13&P, Operator and Field Maintenance Manual Including
Repair Parts and Special Tool List for M68 Sight, Reflex, w/Quick Release
Mount and Sight Mount Close Combat Optic (CCO) (NSN 1240-01-4111265) (NSN 1240-01-540-3690) (NSN 1240-01-576-6134) {AF TO 11W3-5-5121}, 4 May 2013.
TM 9-1240-416-13&P, Operator and Field Maintenance Manual Including
Repair Parts and Special Tool List for the M150 Sight, Rifle Combat Optic
(RCO) (NSN: 1240-01-557-1897), 21 June 2013.
20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

References-1

References

TM 9-1300-200, Ammunition, General, 3 October 1969.
TM 9-1305-201-20&P, Unit Maintenance Manual (Including Repair Parts and
Special Tools List) for Small Arms Ammunition to 30 Millimeter Inclusive
(Federal Supply Class 1305), 5 October 1981.
TM 9-5855-1912-13&P, Operator and Field Maintenance Manual Including
Repair Parts and Special Tools List for Dual Beam Aiming Laser-Advanced2
(DBAL-A2), AN/PEQ-15A (NSN: 5855-01-535-6166) (NSN: 5855-01-5790062) (LIN: J03261), 1 September 2012.
TM 9-5855-1913-13&P, Operator and Field Maintenance Manual Including
Repair Parts and Special Tools List for the Illuminator, Integrated, Small
Arms (STORM) AN/PSQ-23 TAN (NSN: 5855-577-5946 (4XG) (NSN: 585501-535-1905) (EIC: 4XF) (LIN: J68653), 31 August 2012.
TM 9-5855-1914-13&P, Operator and Field Maintenance Manual Including
Repair Parts and Special Tools List for the Advanced Target Pointer
Illuminator Aiming Light (ATPIAL) AN/PEQ-15 (NSN 5855-01-534-5931)
(NSN 5855-01-577-7174) {TM 10470B-0I/1}, 10 September 2012.
TM 9-5855-1915-13&P, Operator and Field Maintenance Manual (Including
Repair Parts and Special Tools List) for the Target Pointer
Illuminator/Aiming Light (TPIAL) AN/PEQ-2A (NSN: 5855-01-447-8992)
(EIC: N/A) AN/PEQ-2B (5855-01-515-6904) (EIC: N/A) {TM 10470A-0I/1},
31 August 2007.
TM 11-5855-306-10, Operator Manual for Monocular Night Vision Device
(MNVD) AN/PVS-14 (NSN 5855-01-432-0524) (EIC: IPX) {TO 12S102PVS14-1; TM 10271A-OR/1B}, 1 October 2010.
TM 11-5855-312-10, Operator`s Manual for Sight, Thermal AN/PAS-13B(V)2
(NSN 5855-01-464-3152) (EIC:N/A); AN/PAS-13B(V)3 (5855-01-464-3151)
(EIC:N/A) {TM 10091B/10092B-10/1}, 15 February 2005.
TM 11-5855-316-10, Operator`s Manual AN/PAS-13C(V)1 Sight, Thermal
(NSN 5855-01-523-7707) (EIC: N/A) AN/PAS-13C(V)2 Sight, Thermal
(NSN 5855-01-523-7713) (EIC: N/A) AN/PAS-13C(V)3 Sight, Thermal
(NSN 5855-01-523-7715) (EIC: N/A), 31 August 2010.
TM 11-5855-317-10, Operator`s Manual for Sight, Thermal AN/PAS-13D(V)2
(NSN 5855-01-524-4313) (EIC: JH5) (MWTS) AN/PAS-13D(V)3 (NSN 585501-524-4314) {TM 10091C/10092C-OR/1}, 15 May 2009.
TM 11-5855-324-10, Operator`s Manual for Sight, Thermal AN/PAS-13D(V)1
(NSN 5855-01-524-4308) (EIC: JG8) (LWTS), 15 May 2009.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
No entries for this section.

References-2

TC 3-22.9, C3

20 November 20 9

References

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing
Directorate (APD) web site (http://www.apd.army.mil).
DA Form 2028, Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

10 January 2017

TC 3-22.9, C1

References-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Index
Entries are listed by paragraph numbers unless mentioned otherwise.

C

F

carry positions

firing positions

six. 6-12
coaching
elements of
shooting. E-30
aiming. E-32

twelve. 6-34

M
movement techniques
horizontal

T
targets
three threat levels,
5-7
thermal weapon sight
five functional
groups. 3-42

eight. 9-3

control. E-34

S

stabilize. E-31

small arms ammunition.
A-14

two types. E-27

20 November 20 9

TC 3-22.9, C3

Index-1

This page intentionally left blank.

TC 3-22.9
13 May 2016

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

MARK A. MILLEY
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff
Official:

GERALD B. O’KEEFE
Administrative Assistant to the
Secretary of the Army
1612002
DISTRIBUTION: Active Army, Army National Guard, and U.S. Army Reserve: To be
distributed in accordance with the initial distribution number (IDN) 110187,
requirements for TC 3-22.9.

PIN: 0

9-000

